# Colorado 2 CCR 406-0, Chapter W-0, § 008(B) - the prohibited species list

sourceId: co-w0-008
jurisdiction: CO
url: https://www.sos.state.co.us/CCR/GenerateRulePdf.do?ruleVersionId=12599&fileName=2+CCR+406-0
fetched: 2026-09-05
fetch notes: same CCR mechanics as CO-co-w7.txt. The full chapter is 166 pages and mostly
  fishing and aquatic rules; only §§ 007-013 bear on possession, and § 008(B) is the list.
  Excerpted here rather than cached whole.

Nineteen entries. Two matter for pet species and both are easy to miss:
  11.  Monk parakeet.        <- overrides "All Psitticine birds" in W-11 #1103(B)
  18.  Prairie dogs (Cynomys spp.)
The grandfather clause in the opening paragraph of § 008(B) reaches ONLY subsections 1 through
8, so entries 9 to 19 have no existing-owner route at all. The prairie dog proviso preserves
scientific collection, relocation and rehabilitation permits, which are institutional, not pet
routes.

Also here: 9. hedgehogs, which bars Erinaceus, Hemiechinus and Paraechinus but exempts
Erinaceus albiventris and Atelerix albiventris by name, so the pet African pygmy hedgehog is
cleared and every other hedgehog is prohibited. 12. and 13. prohibit African tree/sun squirrels
(Heliosciurus) and rope squirrels (Funisciurus) - NOT Glaucomys, so those lines do not decide
the flying squirrel. 6. raccoon, 8. striped skunks, 19. non-human primates.

#008 – POSSESSION OF TERRESTRIAL WILDLIFE 
A. No person shall, at any time, have in possession or under control any wildlife 
caught, taken or killed outside of this state which were caught, taken or killed at a 
time, in a manner, or for a purpose, or in any other respect which is prohibited by 
the laws of the state, territory or country in which the same were caught, taken or 
killed; or which were shipped out of said state, territory or country in violation of 
the laws thereof. 
B. The following terrestrial wildlife species or viable gametes (eggs and sperm) are 
hereby determined to be detrimental to existing wildlife and their habitat in 
Colorado, and ex¬cept as authorized in writing by the Division after consideration 
of the criteria in Commission Regulation #1102(A)(4), their possession is 
prohibited. Persons who have proof of possession of those species listed in 
subsections 1 through 8 of this section prior to September 1, 1990, may possess 
the following species for the life of the animal(s). These live animals may not be 
transported, imported, sold, bartered or traded within Colorado. They may be 
transported out of state according to state and federal regulations. All animals 
held under the grandfather clause must be tagged, recorded, and reported as per 
Commission Regulations #1106, #1109, and #1110. 
1. All species and hybrids of wild species in the subfamily Caprinae not 
native to North America. (Exotic sheep and goats including but not limited 
to: mouflon, barbary sheep, tahr, chamois.) 
2. The following genera in the subfamily Hippotraginae. Oryx spp, Addax 
spp. 
3. The following genera in the subfamily Alcelaphinae. Wildebeest 
(Connochaetes), Hartebeest (Alcelaphus), Damaliscus spp, Blesbok spp. 

=== PAGE 30 ===
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 2 CCR 406-0 
Colorado Parks and Wildlife 
 30 
4. All wild species and hybrids of wild species in the family Suidae (European 
boar, Eurasian boar, Russian boar, feral hog) and the family Tayassuidae 
(Javelina and peccary). 
5. All species and hybrids of wild species in the family Cervidae not 
designated as alternative livestock by §35-41.5-102 C.R.S. or as domestic 
or unregulated wildlife by Chapter W-11 of these regulations. Only 
commercial parks licensed for, and in possession of, authorized species 
on or prior to March 2, 2014 will be allowed to continue possession of 
those species, including acquisition of new individual animals of those 
species. 
6. Raccoon. 
7. Nonnative species of the subfamily Tetraoninae, including but not limited 
to red grouse, black grouse and capercaillae. 
8. Striped skunks. 
9. Hedgehogs - Erinaceus spp., (except Erinaceus albiventris or Atelerix 
albiventris); Hemiechinus spp., and Paraechinus spp. 
10. Brush-tailed opposums - Trichosurus vulpecula, Trichosurus arnhemensis, 
and Trichosurus caninus. 
11. Monk parakeet. 
12. Tree or sun squirrels (Heliosciurus spp.). 
13. Rope squirrels (Funisciurus spp.). 
14. Dormices (Graphiurus spp.) 
15. Gambian giant pouched rats (Cricetomys spp.) 
16. Brush-tailed porcupines (Atherurus spp.) 
17. Striped mice (Hybomys spp.) 
18. Prairie dogs (Cynomys spp.) provided however that native prairie dogs 
may continue to be possessed pursuant to licenses or permits granted by 
the Division for scientific collection, relocation or rehabilitation purposes. 
19. All species and hybrids of non-human primates, except as authorized by 
§35-80-108 C.R.S. 
C. If any diseased wildlife, which would have a significant detrimental effect on 
Colorado's wildlife resource as determined by the Director, are found such 
wildlife may be destroyed or held in quarantine at the owner's expense until 

=== PAGE 31 ===
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 2 CCR 406-0 
Colorado Parks and Wildlife 
 31 
disposition is determined. Possession, transfer or any other act relative to such 
wildlife contrary to the Director's determination of disposition is prohibited. 
1. Any occurrence of CWD in a commercial wildlife park, including the 
detection of CWD in either a wild or private animal within the exterior 
boundaries of the park or facility requires the immediate quarantine of the 
facility. The quarantine shall remain in place and no re-stocking of cervids 
including, but not limited to, stocking for the purposes of the operation of a 
terminal facility, shall occur without written agreement of the Division and 
the Dept. of Agriculture. In addition to required testing of all mortalities, the 
herd shall be closely monitored and all clinically suspect animals shall also 
be destroyed and tested. Any deer or elk brought onto a facility in violation 
of quarantine or re-stocking plan must be immediately destroyed and 
tested for CWD. In all such cases, there shall be no obligation for the state 
to compensate the owner of the animals. 
a. De-population upon a positive diagnosis of CWD shall be required if 
the Division and the Dept. of Agriculture agree that the herd 
presents a substantial risk, taking into consideration the size and 
location of the facility, the presumed length of exposure, the 
effectiveness of the fence, prevalence in surrounding free-ranging 
cervid populations, and other relevant factors. 
b. If the Division and Dept. of Agriculture agree that the herd does not 
present a substantial risk, then a herd plan shall be developed and 
approved by the Division and the Dept. of Agriculture to replace a 
quarantine. 
2. The Director shall determine when destruction of wildlife, a quarantine or 
disinfection is required at any federal, state, private or commercial fish or 
wildlife production facility. If the Director determines that either destruction, 
quarantine or disinfection is required, he shall issue a written order to the 
owner or operator of the facility setting forth the steps for destruction 
and/or disinfection. Required disinfection of holding facilities will be 
completed at the owner's expense. If the owner disagrees with the 
Division's determination he shall have the right to appeal the decision to 
the Wildlife Commission provided notice of such appeal is given to the 
Director within twenty four (24) hours of receipt of the order. 
D. Any species on the prohibited list in #008(B) that escapes the owners or 
guardians control will be deemed to be detrimental to native wildlife and can be 
removed from the wild by the Division as per Commission Regulation #1113(A). 
E. All big game hunting parks as defined in Commission Regulation #1104(A)(1), 
shall develop and submit a plan to accomplish bovine tuberculosis testing and/or 
slaughter surveillance for captive wild ungulates beginning January 1, 1993. 

=== PAGE 32 ===
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 2 CCR 406-0 
Colorado Parks and Wildlife 
 32 
Plans must be submitted to the Division for approval by January 1, 1993, and 
must be approved by the Director and State Veterinarian prior to implementation. 
#009 - RELEASE OF TERRESTRIAL WILDLIFE 
