SOURCE: Georgia: DNR Law Enforcement Division, Guide to Legal Pets, the native and exotic lists in full
sourceId: ga-dnr-legal-pets
jurisdiction: GA
URL: https://gadnrle.org/legal-pets
FETCHED: 2026-10-08 (plain curl with a browser User-Agent; tags stripped)

READ THIS FIRST. GA-ga-wild-animals.txt carries the opening of this page and stops before the list.
This is the whole of the two operative sections. The native list names the black bear, bobcat, gray
fox, raccoon, red fox, river otter and skunk among mammals that "may not be held as a pet regardless
of its origin or morphology". The exotic section carries the hybrid sentence ("all subsequent
generations") and says outright "Wolf hybrids are not a legal pet in Georgia."

Native Wildlife
By Georgia Law, most native species of wildlife cannot be held without permits or licenses. 
These licenses are not issued for the purpose of holding native wildlife as pets. These restrictions apply to the various species of animal, regardless of the origin or morphology.
Exceptions
Georgia Law allows the taking of certain native species -- namely rats, mice, armadillos, coyotes, groundhogs, beaver, freshwater turtles, venomous snakes, frogs, spring lizards, fiddler crabs, freshwater crayfish, freshwater mussels, and nutria -- because of their status as a nuisance or other reason. State regulations prohibit the holding of live armadillos, coyotes, groundhogs, and beaver without the proper permits or licenses. Certain freshwater turtles, mussels, and other species on Georgia's Protected Wildlife List cannot be possessed or collected without proper licenses.
The following list of species native to Georgia may not be held as a pet regardless of its origin or morphology. Although extensive, this list does not include all native wildlife that is prohibited. If there is any doubt about the legality of possessing any species, contact the 
Special Permit Unit
 at 770-918-6408.
Mammals
Armadillo
Bats, all species
Black Bear
Bobcat
Chipmunk
Cottontail Rabbit
Coyote
Cougar
Flying Squirrel
Fox Squirrel
Gray Fox
Gray Squirrel
Groundhog
Marsh Rabbit
Mink
Mole
Muskrat
Opossum
Pocket Gopher
Raccoon
Red Fox
River Otter
Skunk
Swamp Rabbit
Weasel
White-tailed Deer
Reptiles and Amphibians
Alligator
Alligator Snapping Turtle
Black Racer
Bog Turtle
Box Turtle (Eastern, Florida, Gulf Coast, Three-toed)
Brown Snake
Coachwhip
Corn Snake
Crayfish Snake (Glossy, Striped)
Crowned Snake (Southeastern, Central Florida)
Diamondback Terrapin
Earth Snake (Rough, Smooth)
Fence Lizard
Flatwoods Salamander
Florida Worm Lizard
Garter Snake
Georgia Blind Salamander
Glass Lizard (Eastern, Island, Mimic, Slender)
Gopher Tortoise
Green Anole
Green Salamander
Hellbender
Hognose Snake (Eastern, Southern)
Indigo Snake
Kingsnake (Black, Eastern, Mole, Scarlet)
Map Turtle (Alabama, Barbour's, Common)
Milksnake
Mud Snake
One-toed Amphiuma
Pigeon Mountain Salamander
Pine Snake (Florida, Northern)
Pine Woods Snake
Queen Snake
Rainbow Snake
Rat Snake (Black, Gray, Yellow)
Redbellied Snake
Ribbon Snake
Ringneck Snake
Rough Green Snake
Scarlet Snake
Sea Turtle (Green, Hawksbill, Leatherback, Loggerhead, Ridley)
Six-lined Racerunner
Skink (Broadhead, Coal, Five-lined, Southeastern Five-lined, Ground, Mole)
Spotted Turtle
Striped Newt
Water Snake (Banded, Brown, Florida Green, Northern, Redbelly)
Worm Snake
Birds and Fishes
All species of birds encountered in the wild in Georgia are protected by state and federal laws except English sparrows, European starlings, and pigeons.  
All species of fish native to the waters of Georgia are protected.
Non-Native Wild Animals/Exotics
The animals listed below are examples of the exotic species regulated under Georgia Law. The Department should be consulted before any exotic animals which are not normally domesticated in Georgia are acquired. Hybrids or crosses between any combination of domestic animals, wildlife, or regulated wild animals and all subsequent generations are regulated in Georgia and may not be held without a license. The exotic species listed below, except where otherwise noted, may not be held as pets in Georgia. This list is not all inclusive.
Marsupials (wallabies, kangaroos, 
sugar gliders
, etc.); all species
Note
: 
Sugar gliders
 are legal as pets if the owner possesses valid documentation that the animal originated from a source inspected and regulated by the United States Department of Agriculture.
Insectivores (shrews, moles, hedgehogs, tenrecs, etc.); all species
Lemurs; all species
Bats; all species
Primates (monkeys, apes, etc.); all species
Sloths, armadillos, etc.; all species
Pangolins or scaly anteaters; all species
Rabbits and hares; all species except those normally domesticated
Rodents (capybaras, cavies, prairie dogs, degus, etc.); all species except those normally domesticated in Georgia such as hamsters, gerbils, and guinea pigs
Whales, dolphins, etc.; all species
Carnivores 
(weasels, ferrets, foxes, cats, bears, wolves, etc.)
; all species.
Note
: European 
ferrets 
are legal as pets if neutered by 7 months old and vaccinated against rabies. 
Wolf hybrids
 are not a legal pet in Georgia. Most 
exotic cat hybrids
, such as a savannah cat, are not a legal pet in Georgia.
Aardvark; all species
Elephants; all species
Conies; all species
Manatee, dugong; all species
Ungulates (hoof stock); all species except American bison, water buffalos, and llamas
Rhinoceros
Wart hog
Hippopotamus
Hawks, eagles, vultures, etc.; all species
