SOURCE: 312 IAC 9-11-1, 9-11-2, 9-11-3 and 9-11-7 (Wild Animal Possession Permits: applicability, first permit, renewal, Class II list)
sourceId: in-312-9-11
jurisdiction: IN
URL: https://www.law.cornell.edu/regulations/indiana/312-IAC-9-11-7 (and -9-11-1, -9-11-2, -9-11-3)
FETCHED: 2026-10-08 (plain curl with a browser User-Agent from Cornell LII, because iar.iga.in.gov serves only its React shell; cited to the official sections; site chrome stripped)

READ THIS FIRST. IN-in-312-iac-9.txt holds Class I (9-11-6) and Class III (9-11-8) but not the
Class II list, which is here. Class II is Indiana's own furbearers (beaver, coyote, both foxes,
mink, muskrat, opossum, raccoon, striped skunk, weasels) plus fifteen small wild cats. The bobcat
is not on it, so it falls into Class III, "Wild cats (all species), except feral cats and cats
listed in section 7". 9-11-1(a) limits the whole rule to animals referenced in it or listed as
state endangered or threatened. 9-11-2 has a Class I or II animal permitted within five days of
taking possession and a Class III animal permitted before it.

==== 312 IAC 9-11-1 ====
Sec. 1. (a) Except as provided in IC 14-22-26-2 or as exempted under subsections (d) and (e), a
person must have a permit issued by the department under this rule to possess a wild animal if the
wild animal is either of the following: (1) Referenced in this rule. (2) Listed in this article as
an endangered species or a threatened species. (b) A separate permit: (1) is required for each
individual wild animal; and (2) applies only to the location stated in the permit. (c) A permit
issued under this rule expires one (1) year from the date of issuance. If a timely and sufficient
application is made for a permit renewal under section 3 of this rule, however, the permit does not
expire until the department has entered a final determination with respect to the renewal
application. (d) A wild animal that is possessed under any of the following licenses and permits is
exempted from this rule: (1) A game breeder license issued under 312 IAC 9-10-4 . (2) A scientific
purposes license issued under 312 IAC 9-10-6 . (3) A wild animal rehabilitation permit issued under
312 IAC 9-10-9 . (4) An endangered species of turtle possessed under 312 IAC 9-5-11 . (e) This rule
does not apply to the lawful taking or possessing of a wild animal as follows: (1) During a season
established under this article. (2) During the first six (6) months from the date of birth, if the
animal is the offspring of a wild animal lawfully possessed under this rule. (3) The mammal is
possessed by a zoo, carnival, animal dealer, pet shop, circus, or nature center licensed under 9
CFR, Chapter 1, Subchapter A , Pa rts I through IV. (4) During the interstate shipment of animals
through the state of Indiana. (f) A person who possesses a wild animal under this rule is
responsible for complying with all applicable requirements of this rule, including those that govern
permit renewals and permit site relocations.

==== 312 IAC 9-11-2 ====
Sec. 2. (a) This section governs the first permit under this rule to possess a particular wild
animal. (b) A person who wishes to possess a wild animal, described as Class I or Class II in this
rule, must apply for a permit under this rule within five (5) days of taking possession of the
animal that was lawfully acquired and in accordance with this rule. (c) A person who wishes to
possess a wild animal, described as Class III in this rule must obtain a permit under this rule
before the person takes possession of the animal and in accordance with this rule. In addition to
any procedural requirements, a notice under this subsection must also describe the following: (1)
The species of the wild animal. (2) Where the animal will be possessed. (d) Within forty-five (45)
days after the issuance of a permit, the permit holder must submit written verification from a
licensed veterinarian that the animal appears to be: (1) free of disease; and (2) in good health; to
the division of fish and wildlife. (e) An application for a Class III wild animal must present a
plan for the quick and safe recapture of the wild animal if the animal escapes or, if recapture is
impracticable, for the destruction of the animal. After notification by the department of an
intention to issue a permit, but before the permit is issued, the applicant must obtain the
equipment needed to carry out the recapture and destruction plan. The nature and extent of the
recapture plan and the equipment needed are dependent on the danger the escaped animal poses to: (1)
persons; (2) domestic animals; (3) livestock; and (4) other wildlife; in the vicinity of the escape.
(f) A permit holder who possesses a Class III wild animal must notify the department immediately
after the discovery of any escape of the animal from the perimeter fence. (g) A permit application
must be: (1) completed on a department form; and (2) accompanied by a fee in the amount of ten
dollars ($10). (h) A conservation officer shall inspect the: (1) cages or enclosures; (2) wild
animal (if already in possession); and (3) documentation of legal acquisition (if the wild animal is
already in possession); after the application is received and prior to the issuance of a permit. (i)
An applicant must provide documentation that the wild animal was lawfully acquired. A receipted
invoice, bill of lading, or other evidence approved by the director shall accompany the application
to establish compliance with this subsection.

==== 312 IAC 9-11-3 ====
Sec. 3. (a) This section governs a renewal permit to possess a wild animal where a permit was
previously issued for the same wild animal at the same site under section 2 of this rule. (b) A
person who wishes to continue in possession of a wild animal after the expiration date in the permit
must file an application for a renewal permit within thirty (30) days of the expiration date. (c) An
application for a renewal permit must be accompanied by a written verification by a veterinarian
which states the following: (1) The wild animal was observed at least once during the prior year or
more frequently if necessary to provide adequate veterinarian care. Frequency of the visits is
determined by the attending veterinarian, not the facility. (2) The wild animal was properly
immunized. (3) The wild animal appears to have been properly cared for in the following other areas
of animal husbandry: (A) Appropriate: (i) facilities, personnel, and equipment for pest control,
sanitation, quarantine, capture, and restraint; and (ii) medical observation. (B) Appropriate
handling, tranquilization, and euthanasia was provided under veterinarian guidance. (C) Nutrition
and diets. (d) A conservation officer may reinspect the cages or enclosures at any time. The
conservation officer shall attempt to give a permittee a twenty-four (24) hour notice prior to the
reinspection, but, if the officer is unsuccessful in contacting the permittee, the officer may
proceed with the scheduled inspection without making any further attempts to notify anyone. No
notice is necessary if the officer has reason to believe the health and safety of the animal is in
danger if there is a delay. The conditions observed by the conservation officer during a
reinspection will be considered in determining whether to renew a permit.

==== 312 IAC 9-11-7 ====
Sec. 7. (a) A permit is required under this rule for the following Class II wild animals: (1) Beaver
(Castor canadensis). (2) Coyote (Castor latrans). (3) Gray fox (Urocyon cinereoargenteus). (4) Red
fox (Vulpes fulva). (5) Mink (Mustela vison). (6) Muskrat (Ondatra zibethicus). (7) Virginia opossum
(Didelphis marsupialis). (8) Raccoon (Procyon lotor). (9) Striped skunk (Mephitis mephitis). (10)
Weasel (Mustela frenata, Mustela nivalis, and Mustela rixosa). (11) Serval (Leptailurus serval).
(12) Leopard cat (Prionailurus bengalensis). (13) Margay cat (Felis wiedi). (14) Jaguarundi cat
(Felis yagouaroundi). (15) Jungle cat (Felis chaus). (16) Pallas' cat (Felis manul). (17) Sand cat
(Felis margarita). (18) Black-footed cat (Felis nigripes). (19) Flat-headed cat (Prionailurus
planiceps). (20) Fishing cat (Prionailurus viverrinus). (21) Geoffroy's cat (Leopardus geoffroyi).
(22) Pampas cat (Leopardus pajeros). (23) Little spotted cat (Leopardus tigrinus). (24) Pantanal cat
(Leopardus braccatus). (25) Marbled cat (Pardofelis marmorata). A hybrid of any of these species
with a domestic dog or domestic cat is exempt from permitting under this section. (b) As used in
this rule, "Class II wild animal" means a wild animal that, because of its nature, habits, or
status, may pose a threat to human safety.

