# Kentucky: 301 KAR 2:082 §§ 5 and 6, 301 KAR 2:083 (captive cervids), 301 KAR 2:081 § 9 enclosure rows, KDFWR reptile checklist

sourceId: ky-301-2-082
jurisdiction: KY
url: https://apps.legislature.ky.gov/law/kar/titles/301/002/082/
fetched: 2026-10-08
fetch notes: Plain curl of the KAR pages (first, engrossed copy sliced) and the KDFWR reptiles page. Companion to KY-ky-exotic-and-native.txt: adds the 13 July 2005 grandfather for inherently dangerous exotics, the captive cervid permit and its closed noncommercial class, and the native pit viper list.

Extracted text follows verbatim. This is a cache of the primary source, not a
substitute for it. Re-fetch before relying on it for a new verification date.

----------------------------------------------------------------------

==== 301 KAR 2:082 §§ 5 and 6 (apps.legislature.ky.gov/law/kar/titles/301/002/082/) ====
Section 5. Exemptions. (1) A facility that is accredited by the Association of Zoos and Aquariums
shall: (a) Not be required to obtain a transportation permit for exotic wildlife; (b) Be allowed to
import, possess, and transport into Kentucky federally endangered species and the prohibited exotic
species listed in Section 4 of this administrative regulation for official zoo activities; and (c)
Maintain prohibited exotic species in an enclosure sufficient to prevent escape and direct contact
with the public. (2) Commissioner's exemption. (a) Upon written request, the commissioner shall
consider an exemption for importation, transportation into Kentucky, or possession of the prohibited
species listed in Section 4 of this administrative regulation. (b) The commissioner shall only grant
exemptions that promote and further the purposes of KRS Chapter 150. (c) Only the following entities
shall be eligible for an exemption by the commissioner: 1. A facility that is designated as the
official zoo of a municipality; 2. A college or university conducting research or education that
fulfills a classroom requirement; 3. A lawfully operated circus only importing or possessing
inherently dangerous exotic wildlife species that are not federally endangered, as listed in the
Endangered and Threatened Species Act list, 50 C.F.R. 17.11; 4. A facility previously granted an
exemption by the commissioner for the purpose of housing confiscated wildlife and serving as an
animal holding facility as a service to the department; and 5. A facility previously granted a
commissioner's exemption, as a licensed or accredited institute of education or research, that
houses prohibited species at a permanent wildlife facility for educational or research purposes.
Section 6. Prohibited Species Requirements. (1) Prohibited exotic species imported, transported into
Kentucky, or possessed shall be maintained within an enclosure sufficient to prevent: (a) Escape;
and (b) Direct contact with the public. (2) A person shall obtain a valid transportation permit to
temporarily transport into Kentucky a prohibited animal listed in Section 4(2) of this
administrative regulation and shall not: (a) Remain in Kentucky in excess of forty-eight (48) hours;
(b) Stop in Kentucky for exhibition purposes; or (c) Sell, trade, gift, barter, offer for sale,
trade, gift, barter, or profit in any way from a prohibited animal while in Kentucky. (3) Except for
Lynx, a person who legally possessed wildlife listed in Section 4(2) of this administrative
regulation prior to July 13, 2005, may continue to possess the animal through the life of the animal
and shall maintain: (a) Veterinary records; (b) Acquisition papers for the animal; or (c) Any other
evidence that establishes that the person possessed the animal in Kentucky prior to July 13, 2005.
(4) Lynx legally held in Kentucky prior to December 1, 2021, may be allowed to remain in possession
of the owner through the life of the animal. The owner shall maintain: (a) Veterinary records; (b)
Acquisition papers for the animal; or (c) Any other evidence that establishes that the person
legally possessed the animal in Kentucky prior to December 1, 2021. (5) Without an exemption
pursuant to Section 5 of this administrative regulation, a person who legally possesses wildlife
pursuant to subsection (3) or (4) of this section shall not: (a) Replace the wildlife after its
death; (b) Allow the wildlife to reproduce; or (c) Transfer wildlife to other persons, except if the
owner predeceases the animal, the animal may be transferred to another person with the approval of
the department's Wildlife Division Director. (6) If exotic wildlife listed in Section 4 of this
administrative regulation escapes, the owner shall immediately contact local emergency services and
the department at 800-252-5378 to report the escape. (7) All bites, as established in KRS 258.065,
or contact with applicable exotic animals that results in possible exposure to disease or zoonotic
infection, shall be reported to the local county health department within twelve (12) hours. (8) If
an exotic mammal bites a person or a mammal shows symptoms of a rabies infection, the owner of the
animal shall arrange for the animal to be killed in a manner as to preserve the brain intact, and
the animal's head shall be submitted for testing immediately to a laboratory approved by the
Secretary of the Cabinet for Health and Family Services to be tested for rabies, as established in
902 KAR 2:070, Section 5 and KRS 258.085(1)(c).

==== 301 KAR 2:083 § 1, and §§ 7 and 8(1) to (9) (apps.legislature.ky.gov/law/kar/titles/301/002/083/) ====
Section 1. Definitions. (1) "Approved laboratory" means: (a) The National Veterinary Service
Laboratory in Ames, Iowa; or (b) Any other laboratory approved by the Administrator of the Animal
and Plant Health Inspection Service of the United States Department of Agriculture. (2) "Captive
cervid" means a cervid that is privately owned, born, and raised in captivity, and not considered
wildlife as established in KRS 150.010. (3) "Captive cervid permit" means a permit issued by the
Kentucky Department of Fish and Wildlife Resources that authorizes the holding of cervids in
captivity, with the exception of shooting areas, which are permitted under 301 KAR 2:041. (4)
"Cervid" is defined by KRS 150.010(4). (5) "Chronic Wasting Disease" or "CWD" means a transmissible
spongiform encephalopathy found in cervids. (6) "Flop tag" means a commercial plastic ear tag used
to identify livestock. (7) "Line post" means a post in a fence that is not a corner or end post. (8)
"Noncommercial captive cervid permit" means a permit issued prior to March 1, 2016, that allows a
person to possess captive cervids that are not intended for sale, offered for sale, traded, or
bartered.

Section 7. Prohibited Species. Except for cervids legally held prior to November 12, 2002, a captive
cervid permit shall not be issued for the species established in subsections (1) through (4) of this
section: (1) Genus Cervus spp., except Cervus elaphus nelsoni; (2) Genus Axis spp.; (3) Roe deer
(Capreolus and Capreolus pygarus); or (4) Hybrids of any of the species named in subsections (1)
through (3) of this section. Section 8. Captive Cervid Permits. (1) Permit application and issuance.
An application for a new or renewed captive cervid permit shall be processed in accordance with the
provisions of KRS 150.730. (2) A captive cervid permit shall be valid only for the property and
facility identified in the application and that is inspected as established in subsection (11) of
this section. A cervid shall not be moved into a new or expanded facility until the facility has
been issued a captive cervid permit by the department. (3) Zoos and other facilities fully
accredited by and in good standing with the American Zoo and Aquarium Association shall not be
required to obtain or renew a captive cervid permit, but facilities not accredited by the American
Zoo and Aquarium Association shall be required to obtain and renew a captive cervid permit. (4) A
captive cervid permit shall be required for a facility owned or leased by a person wishing to hold
captive cervids. (5) A new noncommercial captive cervid permit shall not be issued to a facility
after February 28, 2016. (6) All wild cervids shall be removed from the facility prior to initial
inspection. (7) A permit shall identify the species of cervids being held. (8) Duration. (a) A
captive cervid permit shall be valid for one (1) year beginning March 1 through the last day of
February and may be renewed annually upon payment of the annual fee, established in 301 KAR 5:022,
and proof of compliance with all applicable statutes and administrative regulations. (b) A
noncommercial captive cervid permit shall be valid for three (3) years beginning March 1 through the
last day of February and may be renewed every third year upon payment of the fee and proof of
compliance with all applicable statutes and administrative regulations. (9) A holder of a
noncommercial captive cervid permit prior to March 1, 2016, shall be allowed to hold captive cervids
for the life of the animals, after which the permit shall not be valid.

==== 301 KAR 2:081 § 9 enclosure rows (f) and (g) (apps.legislature.ky.gov/law/kar/titles/301/002/081/) ====
(f) A gray squirrel, fox squirrel, or flying squirrel shall be held in an enclosure that meets the
requirements established in subparagraphs 1. and 2. of this paragraph. 1. A single animal enclosure
shall be 4 ft. x 4 ft. x 8 ft. 2. There shall be an increase in floor space by two (2) square feet
for each additional animal. (g) A skunk, opossum, rabbit, or woodchuck shall be held in an enclosure
that meets the requirements established in subparagraphs 1. through 3. of this paragraph. 1. A
single animal enclosure shall be at least 6 ft. x 8 ft. x 8 ft. 2. There shall be an increase in
floor space by at least four (4) square feet for each additional animal. 3. A woodchuck shall have
several gnawing logs approximately six (6) inches in diameter.

==== KDFWR Reptiles page, snakes heading (https://fw.ky.gov/Wildlife/Pages/Reptiles.aspx) ====
SNAKES - For more information, please check our Snakes of Kentucky page. Pit Vipers (4) Eastern
Copperhead Northern Cottonmouth Timber Rattlesnake Western Pigmy Rattlesnake
