SOURCE: Kentucky: 301 KAR 2:082 (exotic wildlife), 301 KAR 2:081 (native wildlife), KRS 150.010
URL: https://apps.legislature.ky.gov/law/kar/titles/301/002/082/ and .../081/ and https://apps.legislature.ky.gov/law/statutes/statute.aspx?id=55354
FETCHED: 2026-09-05 (The KAR pages work with plain curl but carry the regulation TWICE, the engrossed version first and the pre-engrossment "alternate view" after the regulatory impact analysis, so slice the first copy. statute.aspx returns a PDF under an .aspx URL; find the id from https://apps.legislature.ky.gov/law/statutes/chapter.aspx?id=37729 rather than guessing, and KRS 150.010 is id=55354.)

READ THIS FIRST. Kentucky splits by nativity and the split is total: 2:082 covers exotic wildlife,
defined at § 1 as "wildlife species that have never naturally existed in the wild in Kentucky", and
2:081 covers everything else. Neither reaches the other.

On the exotic side there are only two possession bars, both in § 4: (1) potentially injurious
species, thirty-two entries mostly birds and rodents, and (2) inherently dangerous species, twenty-
two entries mostly big mammals plus crocodilians, helodermatids, the Komodo dragon and venomous
snakes. Absence from both means possession is free. What absence does NOT mean is free importation:
§ 2(1) requires a transportation permit for every shipment of exotic wildlife into Kentucky unless
the species is on the § 7 permit-exempt list, which is twenty-four entries of conventional pets.

On the native side the default is the other way. 2:081 § 2(3) requires a captive wildlife permit
before acquiring, with two escapes: § 2(5), five or fewer of each native reptile or amphibian, which
does not reach mammals, and § 2(9), captive-bred natives "legally imported or held in a temporary
facility for ten (10) days or less". § 6 is the prohibited natives list, which is bats, bear,
bobcat, cougar, otter, wild turkey, wolf, the six rabies vector species and three herps.

The rabbit is written into both halves and is worth reading as a pair: § 4(1)(dd) of 2:082 prohibits
a "European rabbit (Oryctolagus cuniculus) that morphologically resembles wild European rabbits",
and § 7(9) exempts "Domesticated races of the European rabbit ... morphologically distinguishable
from wild European rabbits". The test is what the animal looks like.

For nativity, the Department's own reptile page is the checklist: it gives Kentucky ten lizards,
five skinks, the Mediterranean house gecko, the eastern slender glass lizard, the northern fence
lizard, the six-lined racerunner and the common wall lizard. No anole.
https://fw.ky.gov/Wildlife/Pages/Reptiles.aspx


==== KRS 150.010, definition of wildlife ====
"Wildlife" means any normally undomesticated animal, alive or dead, including without limitations
any wild mammal, bird, fish, reptile, amphibian, or other terrestrial or aquatic life, whether or
not possessed in controlled environment, bred, hatched, or born in captivity and including any
part, product, egg, or offspring thereof, protected or unprotected by this chapter.

(The open catch-all reaches an insect. The head term, "normally undomesticated animal", is what
puts a domestic rabbit outside before any list is reached.)

==== 301 KAR 2:082 §§ 1 and 2, definition and transportation permits ====
Definition. "Exotic wildlife" means wildlife species that have never naturally existed in the wild
in Kentucky, including species introduced by man that have become naturalized. Section 2.
Transportation Permits and Certificates of Veterinary Inspection. (1) Unless otherwise exempted or
prohibited by this or another administrative regulation, a person shall apply for and obtain a
valid transportation permit or permit authorization number from the department for all shipments
of exotic wildlife prior to: (a) Receiving a shipment of wildlife from outside of Kentucky; (b)
Importing exotic wildlife into Kentucky; or (c) Transporting exotic wildlife into Kentucky. (2) A
copy of a valid transportation permit or permit authorization number shall accompany all shipments
of wildlife into Kentucky. (3) An individual transportation permit shall be valid for one (1)
shipment of wildlife. (4) An annual transportation permit shall be valid for multiple wildlife
shipments for one (1) year from the date of issue. (5) All shipments of wildlife, except for
amphibians and reptiles, shall be accompanied by a: (a) Certificate of veterinary inspection
stating that the wildlife is free from symptoms of disease; or (b) Federal quarantine certificate.

==== 301 KAR 2:082 § 4, the two prohibited lists ====
Prohibited Species. (1) Except as established in Section 5 of this administrative regulation, a
person shall not import, transport into Kentucky, or possess the following exotic wildlife that
are considered potentially injurious to native ecosystems: (a) Baya weaver (Ploceus philippinus);
(b) Blackbirds (Genus Agelaius), except native species; (c) Cape sparrow (Passer melanurus); (d)
Cowbirds (Genus Molothrus), except native species; (e) Cuckoo (Family Cuculidae), except native
species; (f) Dioch or red-billed quelea (Quelea quelea); (g) European blackbird (Turdus merula);
(h) Fieldfare (Turdus pilaris); (i) Flying fox or fruit bat (Genus Pteropus); (j) Fox (Genus
Cerdocyon, Genus Lycalopex, Genus Otocyon, Genus Urocyon, and Genus Vulpes); (k) Gambian giant
pouched rat (Cricetomys gambianus); (l) Giant, marine, or cane toad (Rhinella marina); (m)
Hawaiian rice bird or spotted munia (Lonchura punctulata);[ (n) Java sparrow (Padda oryzivora);
(o) Madagascar weaver (Foudia madagascariensis); (p) Mistle thrush (Turdus viscivorus); (q) Monk
or Quaker parakeet (Myiopsitta monachus); (r) Multimammate rat (Genus Mastomys); (s) Mute swan
(Cygnus olor); (t) Nutria (Myocastor coypus); (u) Prairie dog (Cynomys spp.); (v) Raccoon dog
(Nyctereutes procyonoides);[ (w) Sky lark (Alauda arvensis); (x) Song thrush (Turdus philomelus);
(y) Starling (Family Sturnidae), including pink starlings or rosy pastors (Sturnus roseus), except
for Indian Hill mynahs (Gracula religiosa); (z) Suricate or slender-tailed meerkat (Genus
Suricata); (aa) Tongueless or African clawed frog (Xenopus laevis); (bb) Weaver finch (Genus
Passer), except Passer domesticus; (cc) White eyes (Genus Zosterops); (dd) European rabbit
(Oryctolagus cuniculus) that morphologically resembles wild European rabbits; (ee) Yellowhammer
(Emberiza citrinella); or (ff) A member of the following families: 1. Suidae (pigs or hogs),
except for domestic swine; 2. Viverridae (civets, genets, lingsangs, mongooses and fossas); or 3.
Tayassuidae (peccaries and javelinas). (2) Except as established in Sections 5 and 6 of this
administrative regulation, a person shall not import, transport, or possess the following
inherently dangerous exotic wildlife: (a) Alligators or caimans (Family Alligatoridae); (b)
African buffalo (Syncerus caffer); (c) Bears (Family Ursidae); (d) Cheetah (Acinonyx jubatus); (e)
Clouded leopard (Neofelis nebulosa); (f) Crocodiles (Family Crocodylidae); (g) Elephants (Family
Elephantidae); (h) Gavials (Family Gavialidae); (i) Gila monsters or beaded lizards (Family
Helodermatidae); (j) Hippopotamus (Hippopotamus amphibius); (k) Honey badger or ratel (Mellivora
capensis); (l) Hyenas (Family Hyaenidae), including all species except aardwolves (Proteles
cristatus); (m) Komodo dragon (Varanus komodoensis); (n) Lions, jaguars, leopards, or tigers
(Genus Panthera); (o) Lynx (Genus Lynx); (p) Old world badger (Meles meles); (q) Primates,
nonhuman (Order Primates); (r) Rhinoceroses (Family Rhinocerotidae); (s) Snow leopard (Uncia
uncia); (t) Venomous exotic snakes of the families Viperidae, Atractaspididae, Elapidae,
Hydrophidae, and Colubridae, except for hognose snakes (Genus Heterodon); (u) Wolverine (Gulo
gulo); or (v) Hybrids of a species listed in this subsection. (3) Except as established in
subsection (1) of this section and Section 5 of this administrative regulation, a person may
possess, but shall not import into or transport through Kentucky wild rabbits, hares, or pikas
(Order Lagomorpha).

==== 301 KAR 2:082 § 7, permit-exempt animals ====
Permit-exempt Animals. The following exotic animals shall not require permits from the department
for importation, transportation into Kentucky, or possession: (1) Alpaca (Vicugna pacos); (2)
American bison (Bison bison); (3) Breeds and varieties of goats derived from the wild goat or
bezoar (Capra hircus); (4) Camel (Camelus bactrianus and Camelus dromedarius); (5) Canary
(Serinius canaria); (6) Chinchilla (Chinchilla laniger); (7) Cockatoo and cockatiel (family
Cacatuidae); (8) Domesticated races of ducks and geese (family Anatidae) morphologically
distinguishable from wild ducks or geese; (9) Domesticated races of the European rabbit
(Oryctolagus cuniculus) morphologically distinguishable from wild European rabbits; (10)
Domesticated races of mink (Mustela vison), if: (a) Adults are heavier than 1.15 kilograms; or (b)
The fur color can be distinguished from wild mink; (11) Domesticated races of rats (Rattus
norvegicus or Rattus rattus) or mice (Mus musculus); (12) Domesticated races of turkeys (Meleagris
gallopavo) recognized by the American Poultry Association and the U.S. Department of Agriculture,
but shall not include captive held or bred wild turkeys; (13) Domestic yak (Bos grunniens); (14)
Gerbil (Meriones unguiculatus); (15) Guinea fowl (Numida meleagris); (16) Guinea pig (Cavia
porcellus); (17) Hamster (Mesocricetus spp.); (18) Indian Hill mynah (Gracula religiosa); (19)
Llama (Lama glama); (20) Parrot, lovebird, budgerigar, macaw, parakeet (except monk parakeet, M.
monachus) (families Psittacidae, Psittaculidae, and Psittrichasiidae); (21) Peafowl (Pavo
cristatus); (22) Pigeon (Columba domestica or Columba livia) or domesticated races of pigeons;
(23) Ratite, as defined by KRS 247.870; and (24) Toucan (family Rhamphastidae).

==== 301 KAR 2:081 §§ 1 and 2, definitions and taking and possessing native wildlife ====
Definitions. (1) "Bred in captivity" or "captive bred" means wildlife, including eggs, born or
otherwise produced in captivity from parents that mated or otherwise transferred gametes in
captivity, if reproduction is sexual, or from parents that were in captivity when development of
the progeny began, if development is asexual. (2) "Enhanced Rabies Surveillance Zone" means Bell,
Boyd, Bracken, Carter, Clay, Elliot, Fleming, Floyd, Greenup, Harlan, Johnson, Knott, Knox,
Laurel, Lawrence, Leslie, Letcher, Lewis, Martin, Mason, McCreary, Pike, Perry, Robertson, and
Whitley counties. (3) "Native wildlife" means wildlife species that have historically existed,
currently exist, or have naturally expanded their range: (a) In the wild into Kentucky; (b)
Without introduction by humans; and (c) Regardless of: 1. Origin or location of an individual
animal; and 2. Being captive-bred or taken from the wild. (4) "Rabies vector species" means a: (a)
Coyote (Canis latrans); (b) Gray fox (Urocyon cinereoargenteus); (c) Raccoon (Procyon lotor); (d)
Red fox (Vulpes vulpes); (e) Spotted skunk (Spilogale putorius); (f) Striped skunk (Mephitis
mephitis); or (g) Any hybrid of paragraphs (a) through (f) of this subsection. Section 2. Taking
and Possessing Native Wildlife. (1) A person shall not possess native wildlife that was not
legally acquired. (2) For native wildlife obtained from the wild, a person shall not: (a) Buy; (b)
Sell; (c) Offer to buy; (d) Offer to sell; or (e) Trade or barter. (3) Except as established in
Sections 5(9) and 7(1) of this administrative regulation and subsections (4), (5), (6), and (9) of
this section, a person holding native wildlife in captivity shall apply for and obtain the
appropriate permit prior to acquiring wildlife. (4) Northern bobwhite. (a) A person may possess
100 or fewer northern bobwhite without a captive wildlife permit, if the: 1. Birds are not
propagated or sold; and 2. Person retains and possesses a receipt or proof of purchase. (b) A
person possessing northern bobwhite for dog training areas, shooting areas, or a shoot-to-train
season shall comply with all applicable requirements of 301 KAR 2:041. (c) Any confining facility
shall comply with Sections 8 through 11 of this administrative regulation. (5) Amphibians and
reptiles. (a) Five (5) or fewer individuals of each species of native reptile or amphibian may be
taken year-round or possessed for personal use without a permit, except there shall be: 1. No
limit on common snapping or softshell turtles, as established in 301 KAR 1:058; 2. A limit of
fifteen (15) bullfrogs per night, during the bullfrog season, as established in 301 KAR 1:082; and
3. A limit of twenty-five (25) dusky salamanders of the genus Desmognathus, as established in 301
KAR 1:130. (b) There shall not be a limit on the number of individuals of each species possessed
by a commercial or noncommercial captive wildlife permit holder, if the permit holder does not
possess more than five (5) wild-caught individuals of each species of amphibian or reptile. (c) A
captive wildlife permit shall not be required to hold reptiles with a color morphology that is
distinctly different from the wild type of the same species of reptile. (6) A person with a valid
falconry permit, as established in 301 KAR 2:195, shall not be required to possess a noncommercial
captive wildlife permit or transportation permit for raptors held under the falconry permit. (7) A
rabies vector species that is trapped in accordance with 301 KAR 2:251 shall be dispatched before
being moved, unless immediately released at capture site, except that red foxes and coyotes
trapped during the trapping season, as established in 301 KAR 2:251, may be: (a) Held for up to
forty-eight (48) hours with a valid noncommercial captive wildlife permit only for the purpose of
being transferred to a permitted foxhound training enclosure as established in 301 KAR 2:041; and
(b) Transferred from the wild to a permitted foxhound training enclosure if the enclosure is
located within the county of capture but shall not be transferred from one foxhound training
enclosure to another. (8) A person shall not transport a living rabies vector species into or out
of the Enhanced Rabies Surveillance Zone. (9) A captive wildlife permit shall not be required for
captive-bred native wildlife legally imported or held in a temporary facility for ten (10) days or
less. (10) A permit holder shall report all bites and exposure events, as established in KRS
258.065, to the local county health department within twelve (12) hours. (11) If a native mammal
in a permit holder's possession bites a person or a mammal shows symptoms of a rabies infection,
the animal shall be dispatched immediately, as established in KRS 258.085(1)(c), and the permit
holder shall submit its head for testing immediately to a laboratory approved by the Secretary for
Health and Family Services to be tested for rabies, as established in 902 KAR 2:070, Section 5.
(12) Department staff shall confiscate and dispatch any wild mammal that bites a person or shows
symptoms of a rabies infection if the animal is not otherwise immediately dispatched pursuant to
subsection (11) of this section.

==== 301 KAR 2:081 § 3(1) and (2), the two captive wildlife permits ====
Captive Wildlife Permits and Record Keeping. (1) Commercial captive wildlife permit. (a) A
commercial captive wildlife permit shall be required for a person to: 1. Sell; 2. Offer to sell;
3. Trade; 4. Barter; or 5. Profit in any way from captive native wildlife, except as authorized by
Section 2(9) of this administrative regulation. (b) A commercial captive wildlife permit shall be
renewable annually from the date of issue. (c) A commercial captive wildlife permit shall be valid
for one (1) specific captive wildlife facility. (2) Noncommercial captive wildlife permit. (a) A
noncommercial captive wildlife permit shall be required for a person possessing native wildlife,
but not selling, offering to sell, trading, bartering, or profiting in any way from captive native
wildlife. (b) A noncommercial captive wildlife permit shall be renewable three (3) years from the
date of issue. (c) A noncommercial captive wildlife permit shall be valid for one (1) specific
captive wildlife facility.

==== 301 KAR 2:081 § 6, prohibited native species ====
Prohibited Species. (1) Except as established in Sections 2(7) and 7 of this administrative
regulation, 301 KAR 2:075, and 301 KAR 3:120, a person shall not import, transport into Kentucky,
or possess: (a) Alligator snapping turtle (Macrochelys temminckii); (b) Bats of any species that
are native to Kentucky, including: 1. Big Brown Bat (Eptesicus fuscus); 2. Eastern Red Bat
(Lasiurus borealis); 3. Eastern Small-footed Myotis (Myotis leibii); 4. Evening Bat (Nycticeius
humeralis); 5. Gray Bat (Myotis grisescens); 6. Hoary Bat (Lasiurus cinereus); 7. Indiana Bat
(Myotis sodalis); 8. Little Brown Bat (Myotis lucifugus); 9. Northern Long-eared Bat (Myotis
septentrionalis); 10. Rafinesque's Big-eared Bat (Corynorhinus rafinesquii); 11. Seminole Bat
(Lasiurus seminolus); 12. Silver-haired Bat (Lasionycteris noctivagans); 13. Southeastern Myotis
(Myotis austroriparius); 14. Tricolored Bat (Perimyotis subflavus); and 15. Virginia Big-eared Bat
(Corynorhinus townsendii virginianus); (c) Black bear (Ursus americanus); (d) Bobcat (Lynx rufus);
(e) Copperbelly water snake (Nerodia erythrogaster neglecta); (f) Cougar or mountain lion (Felis
concolor); (g) Hellbender (Cryptobranchus alleganiensis); (h) Kirtland's Snake (Clonophis
kirtlandii); (i) Otter (Lontra canadensis); (j) Rabies Vector Species: 1. Coyote (Canis latrans);
2. Gray fox (Urocyon cinereoargenteus); 3. Raccoon (Procyon lotor); 4. Red fox (Vulpes vulpes); 5.
Spotted skunk (Spilogale putorius); 6. Striped skunk (Mephitis mephitis); or 7. Any hybrid of
rabies vector species. (k) Wild turkey (Meleagris gallopavo); or (l) Wolf (Canis lupus). (2)
Except as established in Section 7 of this administrative regulation, a person may possess native
wild rabbits of the Sylvilagus genus but shall not import or transport native wild rabbits of the
Sylvilagus genus into Kentucky.
