SOURCE: Louisiana: LAC 76:V.113 (fox and coyote hunting preserves; purchase and sale of live foxes and coyotes), LAC 76:V.115.B to D.1 (potentially dangerous wild quadrupeds), LAC 76:V.131.D.3 (wildlife rescuer), and La. R.S. 56:8(92) and (151)
sourceId: la-76-v-113; la-76-v-115; la-76-v-131; la-rs-56-8
jurisdiction: LA
URL: https://www.doa.la.gov/media/ln5kb5vu/76.docx and https://legis.la.gov/legis/Law.aspx?d=105616
FETCHED: 2026-10-08 (the Title 76 .docx, extracted with python zipfile from word/document.xml as described in LA-la-wildlife-rules.txt; legis.la.gov with plain curl, tags stripped. The rule's own long dashes in definitions are rendered here as colons.)

READ THIS FIRST. LA-la-wildlife-rules.txt quotes R.S. 56:8(151) cut off with "...". The full text
is below, and it matters: foxes and bobcats are "protected quadrupeds" and raccoons, skunks and
otters are "nongame quadrupeds". The fox rule at LAC 76:V.113 then does more than regulate hound
pens. D.1 bars taking, possessing, buying or selling live foxes except under the rule, D.6 bars
possessing "any live foxes or coyotes taken outside the state of Louisiana", and the stated purpose
is to "prohibit the importation and exportation of any species of foxes". The only licenses the rule
offers are a trapper's license and the nongame quadruped exhibitor and breeder licenses, which the
rule defines as licenses to engage in a business. Also note § 115.D.1: the wolf-dog hybrid entry is
still printed in the § 115.C.1 list, but D.1 says that prohibition expired on 1 January 1997.


==== La. R.S. 56:8(92) and (151) ====
(92) "Nongame quadruped" means alligators, beavers, bobcats, coyotes, gray foxes, minks, muskrats,
nutrias, opossums, otters, raccoons, red foxes, skunks, and other wild quadrupeds valuable for their
skins or furs.

(151)(a) "Wild quadrupeds" means and includes any and all of the following: (i) Game quadrupeds:
wild deer, bears, squirrels, and wild rabbits. (ii) Outlaw quadrupeds: coyotes, armadillos, and
feral hogs. (iii) Protected quadrupeds: wolves, cougars, bobcats, and foxes; provided that foxes and
bobcats may be run with dogs. (iv) Nongame quadrupeds: mink, otter, muskrat, nutria, beaver,
weasels, raccoons, skunks, opossum, alligator, and other wild quadrupeds valuable for their skins or
furs. (b) Wild quadrupeds does not include wild quadrupeds taken, possessed, or transported under
the provisions set forth in the game breeder license. The terms "wild quadrupeds" and "wild game
quadrupeds" shall not include buffalo, bison, or beefalo.

==== LAC 76:V.113, selected subsections ====
§113.Fox/Coyote Hunting Preserve, Purchase and Sale of Live Foxes and Coyotes, Permitting Year-Round Coyote Trapping
A.Purpose. These regulations are to govern the trapping, purchasing, selling and captive possession
of live foxes and coyotes for chasing with hounds. These regulations prohibit the importation and
exportation of any species of foxes or coyotes to or from Louisiana in an effort to prevent possible
disease and parasite contamination of native wild canids and humans. These regulations allow the
sport of fox/coyote hunting with dogs within enclosed areas.
Licensee: any lawful holder of a valid trapper’s or nongame quadruped exhibitor/breeder license duly
issued under the authority of the department for the purposes of operating a fox/coyote hunting
preserve.
Nongame Quadruped: alligators, beavers, bobcats, coyotes, grey foxes, minks, muskrats, nutrias,
opossums, otters, raccoons, red foxes, skunks and other wild quadrupeds valuable for their furs or
skins.
Nongame Quadruped Breeder: any person properly licensed to engage in the business of raising,
exhibiting and selling nongame quadrupeds.
Nongame Quadruped Exhibitor: any person properly licensed to engage in the business of raising and/or
exhibiting nongame quadrupeds.
C.Licenses and Fees.
1.A trapper’s license is required to take foxes or coyotes by means of a trap during the open season
for nongame quadrupeds, however, coyotes may be taken by trap during the closed season by any
properly licensed trapper.
2.A nongame quadruped exhibitor's license may be issued permitting the applicant to possess, breed
and/or exhibit live foxes or coyotes outside of the open trapping season, provided he meets the
rules and regulations of the department;
3.A nongame quadruped breeder license may be issued permitting the applicant to possess, breed,
propagate, exhibit, and sell live foxes or coyotes outside of the open trapping season.
D.General Rules
1.No person shall take, possess, purchase or sell live foxes or coyotes, except as provided in these
regulations.
2.No person shall hold in captivity any live foxes or coyotes outside of the open trapping season,
except as provided in these regulations.
6.No person shall transport, possess, purchase or sell any live foxes or coyotes taken outside the
state of Louisiana. Live foxes and coyotes obtained from outside the state of Louisiana prior to the
enacted date of these regulations and in possession of properly licensed persons shall be exempt.
7.No person shall transport from the state or offer for sale out of state any live foxes or coyotes.
9.No person may engage in the business of raising or exhibiting or otherwise possessing fox or
coyotes for the purpose of operating a fox/coyote hunting preserve unless he or she has acquired and
possesses a valid nongame quadruped breeder or exhibitor license.

==== LAC 76:V.115.B to D.1 ====
§115.Possession of Potentially Dangerous Wild Quadrupeds, Big Exotic Cats, and Non-Human Primates
B.This commission regulation prohibits importation and private possession, and otherwise regulates
certain wild quadrupeds, big exotic cats, and non-human primates as provided herein.
C.1.Except as provided herein, it shall be unlawful to import into, possess, purchase or sell within
the state of Louisiana, by any means whatsoever including but not limited to transactions conducted
via the internet, any of the following species or its subspecies of live wild quadrupeds, big exotic
cats, or non-human primates, domesticated or otherwise (hereinafter "listed animals"):
a.black bear (Ursus americanus);
b.grizzly bear (Ursus arctos);
c.polar bear (Ursus maritimus);
d.red wolf (Canis rufus);
e.gray wolf (Canis lupus);
f.wolf dog hybrid (Canis lupus or Canis rufus x Canis familiarus);
g.all non-human primates;
h.the following big exotic cats:
i.tigers;
ii.lions;
iii.leopards (including, but not limited to snow leopard and clouded leopard);
iv.jaguars;
v.cheetahs;
vi.cougars or mountain lions (Felis concolor);
vii.all subspecies of the above listed exotic cats;
viii.hybrids resulting from cross breeding of the above listed exotic cats.
2.Holders of a potentially dangerous wild quadruped permit allowing possession of any listed animal,
where the permit is valid on the effective date of this regulation, will be "grandfathered" and the
permit will be renewed annually until existing permitted captive animals expire, or are legally
transferred out of state, or are transferred to a suitable facility. No additional listed animals
may be acquired by any means whatsoever, including breeding.
D.1.Wolf-Dog Hybrids. The prohibition against wolf-dog hybrids expired January 1, 1997. Persons are
cautioned that local ordinances or other state regulations may prohibit possession of these animals.
Any animal which appears indistinguishable from a wolf, or is in any way represented to be a wolf
shall be considered to be a wolf in the absence of bona fide documentation to the contrary.

==== LAC 76:V.131.D.3(a) and (b) ====
§131.Wildlife Rehabilitation Program
3.Wildlife Rescuer
a.Individuals may possess in captivity certain sick, injured, or orphaned wildlife while providing
care for such wildlife for a period of up to 90 days as provided for in this Paragraph.
i.Wildlife included under this Paragraph shall be limited to the following species: squirrel,
opossum, rabbit, or chipmunk, with such possession limited to one animal or litter of animals per
individual.
ii.A raccoon or skunk that is sick, injured, or orphaned may also be possessed pursuant to the
provisions of this Paragraph upon notification to the Department of Wildlife and Fisheries of
possession of the wildlife and upon receipt of information regarding rabies vector species and a
list of available wildlife rehabilitators.
iii.Individuals in possession of any of these animals shall be held strictly liable for any damages
for injuries to persons or property caused by the animal.
b.To continue to possess the wildlife beyond ninety days from finding the sick, injured, or orphaned
wildlife all of the following shall occur.
i.The individual has satisfied wildlife rescuer training requirements. The curriculum shall be
offered online and shall cover at a minimum safety considerations, wildlife husbandry requirements,
transfer of diseases, and that a person possessing an animal pursuant to this Paragraph is held
strictly liable for any damage or injury the animal causes.
ii.The individual applied for a Special Purpose and Possession permit.
iii.A Louisiana licensed veterinarian has determined that the animal is medically non-releasable or
exhibits signs of adjusted life in captivity.
c.i.If the conditions of Subparagraph b of this Paragraph have been met, the Department of Wildlife
and Fisheries shall issue a special purpose and possession permit and the individual shall be able
to continue to possess the animal for the duration of its natural life.
ii.Any animal possessed pursuant to the provisions of this Paragraph shall be spayed or neutered.
Rabies vector species shall also be microchipped by a Louisiana licensed veterinarian.
d.A Louisiana licensed veterinarian shall not be liable to any person for any injury, illness,
death, loss, civil penalty, or damage as a result of any act or omission in determining that the
animal is medically non-releasable or exhibits signs of adjusted life in captivity as required by
the provisions of this Paragraph. However, this limitation of liability shall not be applicable if
the damage, injury, or loss was caused by the gross negligence or willful or wanton misconduct of
the licensed Louisiana veterinarian.
e.It shall be unlawful for an individual exempted under the provisions of this Paragraph to use the
wildlife in any manner for the purposes of exploitation, including for any promotional or commercial
purpose, or for the purposes of pet trade. Any such act shall be grounds for seizure of the wildlife
by the department and revocation of any issued permit.
