SOURCE: Mississippi: 40 Miss. Admin. Code Part 2, Rule 8.4 (game and furbearing animals in captivity), Rule 7.1 (taking of nuisance animals) and Rule 8.3 (animals inherently dangerous to humans, Rev. 04-2025)
sourceId: ms-40-2-8-4 (Rule 8.4); ms-40-2-7-1 (Rule 7.1); ms-40-2-8-3 (Rule 8.3)
jurisdiction: MS
URL: https://www.law.cornell.edu/regulations/mississippi/40-Miss-Code-R-SS-2-8-4 and https://www.mdwfp.com/sites/default/files/2024-04/40-miss-admin-code-part-2-rule-71-general-regulations-for-the-taking-of-nuisance-animals-rev-05-2022-final.pdf and https://www.mdwfp.com/sites/default/files/2025-06/40%20Miss%20Admin%20Code%20Part2%20Rule%208.3%20Animals%20Inherently%20Dangerous%20to%20Humans%20Rev.%2004-2025%20FINAL.pdf
FETCHED: 2026-10-08 (mdwfp.com PDFs with the completed GlobalSign chain described in MS-ms-nongame-in-need.txt, then pdftotext -layout. Rule 8.4 is not in mdwfp.com's rules record list, so it is read from Cornell LII, which shows it amended 10/22/2017; sos.ms.gov refuses plain curl with Access Denied.)

READ THIS FIRST. Rule 8.3 answers only the inherently dangerous list. The natives are answered by two
other rules. Rule 8.4 defines game and furbearing animals as a closed list (white-tailed deer, black
bear, gray and fox squirrels, cottontail and swamp rabbits, raccoon, opossum, bobcat, river otter,
muskrat, mink, weasel) and prohibits possessing any of them alive, with exceptions only for public
zoos, veterinarians, transport to care, and permitted deer enclosures and fox, coyote and rabbit
pens. Rule 7.1 recites that Miss. Code § 49-7-1 classifies "nutria, beaver, fox, skunks, coyotes and
wild hogs" as nuisance animals and bars possessing them alive except coyotes and foxes in permitted
hunting enclosures. Note the black bear: Rule 8.3 offers a personal possession permit for every
bear, but Rule 8.4 names the black bear as game and bars possessing one alive with no permit
exception, so the native bear cannot use the 8.3 permit.


==== Rule 8.4, from Cornell LII ====
RULE 8.4 REGULATIONS FOR GAME AND FURBEARING ANIMALS IN CAPTIVITY.
A. Game and furbearing animals are defined as the following: white-tailed deer, black bear, gray
squirrel, fox squirrel, cottontail rabbit, swamp rabbit, raccoon, opossum, bobcat, river otter,
muskrat, mink, and weasel. B. Possession of live game and furbearing animals is prohibited with the
following exceptions: 1. Public zoological gardens or educational institutions. Public zoological
garden and/or educational institution shall be defined as a permanent cultural institution which
owns and maintains captive wild animals under the direction of a professional staff, provides its
collection with appropriate care, and exhibits them in an aesthetic manner to the public on a
regularly scheduled basis. a. "Public Zoo" shall further be defined as having as its primary
business the exhibition, conservation, and preservation of wild animals in an educational and
scientific manner. b. Public zoos must be accredited by the American Zoo and Aquarium Association
(AZA), the Zoological Association of America (ZAA), or be designated as the official zoo of a
municipality. c. Public zoos shall hold a USDA Class "C" Exhibitor's License. 2. Licensed
veterinarians who possess and hold diseased or injured animals while providing needed medical care,
except that a record must be kept of animals received, name and address of the person from whom it
was received, and the disposition of such animals. 3. Any person possessing or having custody of a
sick or injured animal solely for the purpose of transporting the animal to a licensed veterinarian,
rehabilitator, animal shelter or MDWFP officer. 4. High-fenced enclosures that contain white-tailed
deer and are permitted by MDWFP as required by Part 2, Chapter 8, Rule 8.2 AND fox, coyote, and
rabbit pens that are permitted by MDWFP as required by Part 2, Chapter 8, Rule 8.1 . C. All live
game and furbearing animals discovered being possessed in violation of this rule shall be
confiscated by MDWFP. MDWFP shall transport the animal to a licensed wildlife rehabilitator or shall
humanely euthanize the animal and submit samples for biological testing. Additionally, white-tailed
deer inside permitted breeding pens, as defined in Part 2, Chapter 8, Rule 8.2 , may be humanely
euthanized by permit from MDWFP. All animals euthanized by such permit must be tested for bovine
tuberculosis, brucellosis, and chronic wasting disease. D. Animals and facilities permitted under
this, or any other rule of the Commission, shall be subject to periodic inspection by any MDWFP
personnel to determine if the animals are being held and maintained in accordance with the
provisions of this rule, or any other rule of the Commission, and the requirements of the MDWFP
issued permit. E. No provisions of this rule shall authorize any person to possess any live animal
in violation of any city or county ordinance. Notes 40 Miss. Code. R. 2-8.4 Miss. Code Ann. §§
49-1-29 , 49-4-4 , 49-1-41 Revised September 2016 Amended 5/2/2017 Updated August 2017 Amended
10/22/2017

==== Rule 7.1, sections A, B.5 and F ====
RULE 7.1 GENERAL REGULATION FOR THE TAKING OF NUISANCE ANIMALS.
 A. MISS. CODE ANN. §49-7-1, as amended, classifies nutria, beaver, fox, skunks, coyotes
and wild hogs, as “nuisance” animals. Pursuant to the authority stated therein, the Commission
issues this regulation for the taking of nuisance animals:
 4. Nuisance animals may be hunted with the aid of electronic calls.
 5. Any part of any nuisance animal that has been lawfully taken, may be sold year-
round, with the exception of wild hog meat, as set forth elsewhere in this rule. The only nuisance
animals that may be sold alive are coyotes and fox per 40 Miss. Admin. Code Pt. 2, Rule 8.1
 F. Live nuisance animals may not be possessed except:
 1. Coyotes in permitted coyote enclosures;
 2. Fox in permitted fox enclosures, or
 3. Coyote and fox may be possessed by licensed fur trappers for the sole purpose
of transporting and selling to a MDWFP licensed coyote/fox enclosure. Possession over 30
consecutive days for this purpose is prohibited.
 4. Hogs for the purpose of slaughter in an enclosure no larger than 500 square feet
in size and constructed in a manner that prevents the escape of any wild hog.
 G. For the purpose of this rule, “wild hogs” are hereby defined as any feral hog, wild swine,

==== Rule 8.3, sections A, B.3, C.2 and D.4 to D.5 ====
RULE 8.3 REGULATIONS FOR ANIMALS INHERENTLY DANGEROUS TO HUMANS.
A. INTRODUCTION
 1. a. It is unlawful for any person to import, export, transport, receive, transfer,
sell, purchase, acquire or possess by intrastate, interstate or foreign commerce, any wild animal
classified as inherently dangerous by law or regulation unless that person holds a permit or is
exempt from holding a permit.
 b. Effective December 20, 2022, with the enacting of the Big Cat Public Safety
Act, 16 U.S.C. §3370 et. seq., by the United States Congress, no new permits for the transfer or
possession of members of the order Carnivora, family Felidae, or “big cats,” will be issued.
Pursuant to the terms of the Act, all current permittees/owners of big cats must register the animals
with the US Fish & Wildlife Service, by or before June 18, 2023. More information regarding
registering big cats and/or exceptions to the prohibition contained in the Act, may be found on the
US Fish & Wildlife Service’s website at: https://www.fws.gov/what-you-need-know-about-big-
cat-public-safety-act.
 c. All other provisions of this rule regarding Carnivora Felidae are and shall
remain in full force and effect for current “big cat” permittees.
 2. Public zoos, university research facilities, governmental agencies, exhibitors, and
 rehabilitation/sanctuary facilities may be exempted from having a permit if the exemption
 is approved by the Commission or DWFP.
 3. Any permit issued under this act shall be valid for one (1) year and only for the species
 specified. A permit is required for each wild animal possessed. A permit for a female
 wild animal shall cover her progeny only while her progeny are physically dependent
 upon her or until her progeny are three (3) months old, whichever period is longer.
 4. It is unlawful for any person to sell, transfer, deliver or give a wild animal classified as
 inherently dangerous to any other person unless the other person holds a permit for the
 wild animal or is exempt from holding a permit.
 5. The following wild animals are classified as animals inherently dangerous to humans:
 a. Order Primates:
 i. Family Pongidae (includes gibbons, orangutans, chimpanzees,
 siamangs, and gorillas) - all species;
 ii. Family Cercopithecidae: Genus Macaca (macaques) - all species;
Genus Papio (mandrills, drills, and baboons) - all species; Genus Theropithecus (gelada baboon);
 b. Order Carnivora:
 i. Family Canidae: Genus Canis (wolves, jackals, and dingos; all
 species, including crosses between wolves and domestic animals);
 excluding coyote (Canis latrans); Chrysocyon brachyurus (maned
 wolf); Cuon alpinus (red dog or dhole); Lycaon pictus (African
 hunting dog);
 ii. Family Ursidae (bears) - all species;
 iii. Family Mustelidae - Gulo gulo (wolverine);
 iv. Family Hyaenidae (hyenas) - all species;
 v. Family Felidae: Genus Leo or Panthera or Neofelis (lions, tigers,
 jaguars, and leopards) - all species; Acinonyx iubatus (cheetah); Felis
 concolor (cougar) - all subspecies;
 c. Order Proboscidea: Family Elephantidae (elephants) - all species;
 d. Order Perissodactyla: Family Rhinocerotidae (rhinoceroses) all species;
 e. Order Artiodactyla:
 i. Family Hippopotamidae: Hippopotamus amphibius
(hippopotamus);
 ii. Family Bovidae: Syncerus caffer (African buffalo).
B. DEFINITIONS
 2. Fee Exempt - A permit issued to a public zoo, university research facility, governmental
 agency, or rehabilitation/sanctuary facility, as defined herein, if such exemption is
 approved by the Commission.
 a. Any facility not meeting the definition of one of the above but that was in
 existence on or before January 1, 1999, may apply for a fee-exempt permit.
 b. Such application must be made on or before May 1, 1999.
 c. Such facility may temporarily exhibit permitted animals "off premises" provided
 such exhibition is educational in nature and permittee obtains an Exhibitor
 permit.
 d. Fee-exempt facilities must comply with all other requirements contained herein.
 3. Personal possession - A non-commercial type permit issued to a citizen for ownership
 or possession of a wild animal or animals. Such permit does not authorize the public
 display or exhibition of permitted animal(s).
 4. Public zoo - Public zoos and zoological gardens shall be defined as a permanent cultural
 3. Personal possession - A non-commercial type permit issued to a citizen for ownership
 or possession of a wild animal or animals. Such permit does not authorize the public
 display or exhibition of permitted animal(s).
C. TYPES OF PERMITS AND FEES
 2. Personal Possession: Fee is for each wild animal held.
 a. Canids (includes wolves, jackals, dingos, maned wolves, dholes, African
 hunting dogs or hybrids thereof) - $75.00.
 b. Primates (includes gorillas, chimpanzees, orangutans, gibbons, siamangs,
 macaques, and baboons) - $150.00.
 c. Ursids (includes all species of bears) - $200.00.
 d. Felids (includes lions, tigers, cheetahs, jaguars, leopards, cougars, snow
 leopards, clouded leopards or hybrids thereof) - $300.00.
 e. All species listed below - $300.00
 i. Wolverines
 ii. hyenas
 iii. elephants
 iv. rhinoceroses
 v. hippopotamuses, and
 vi. African buffalo.
D. PERMIT APPLICATION PROCEDURES
 2. Any person possessing or desiring to possess a wild animal must, unless otherwise
 exempted, have a valid permit.
 3. Permit applications for possession of a wild animal shall be on a form prescribed by the
 DWFP.
 4. Applicants for a permit to possess a wild animal shall meet the following minimum
 qualifications:
 a. Applicant must be at least twenty-one (21) years of age.
 b. Applicant must have at least two (2) years of experience in the care and handling
 of the species for which the applicant is applying.
 c. In lieu of experience, applicant must take a written examination, developed and
 administered by the DWFP, evidencing knowledge in the basic biology, habits,
 and requirements, in regard to proper diet, health care, exercise needs and
 housing, of the species to be covered by the permit.
 d. Applicant must have a plan for the quick and safe recapture of the animal(s), or
 if recapture is impossible, for the destruction of any animal held under the
 permit.
 e. Applicant shall not have been convicted of any violation of captive wildlife
 regulations, any offense involving the illegal commercialization of wildlife, or
 any offense involving cruelty to animals within three (3) years of the date of
 application.
5. Personal Possession Permit:
 a. Name, complete street address, and phone number. Post office box address will
 not be accepted.
 b. Location where wild animal(s) will be housed. Facilities for holding permitted
 wild animal(s) must be located on the premises on which the permittee resides
 or shall have a full-time caretaker to supervise the care and security of the
 facilities.
 c. Copy of bill of sale or other documentation acceptable to DWFP showing
 ownership of the wild animal by applicant, including date of acquisition.
 d. Current animal inventory including the common and scientific name, sex, age,
 and source of each animal.
 e. A signed statement by a licensed veterinarian stating that he/she is the
 veterinarian of record and including the veterinarian's complete address, phone
 number, and license number. The veterinarian shall certify that he/she has
 observed each of the applicant's animals at least once during the prior year and
 that they have been appropriately immunized and cared for.
 f. Proof of liability insurance in the amount of One Hundred Thousand Dollars
 ($100,000.00) for each wild animal up to a maximum of One Million Dollars
 ($1,000,000.00).
 g. No personal possession permit will be issued to a corporation, partnership, or
 other legal entity of any kind.
 h. Applicant shall be provided a copy of the regulations governing the possession
 of a wild animal upon request for a permit application. Before such a permit is
 issued, all animals records, and facilities shall be inspected by DWFP to ensure
 compliance with the regulations. Inspection procedures are found under Section
 VIII of these regulations. Any false statement made by applicant on the permit
 application will render such application null and void, and subject applicant to
 the penalties provided by law.
