SOURCE: N.J.A.C. 7:25 Subchapter 4, Endangered, Nongame and Exotic Wildlife
URL: https://dep.nj.gov/wp-content/uploads/rules/rules/njac7-25.pdf
FETCHED: 2026-09-05 (NJDEP courtesy copy of the whole of N.J.A.C. 7:25; this file is subchapter 4, sections 4.1 through 4.18, extracted with pypdf. Page headers and the courtesy-copy banner stripped.)

7:25-4.1 Definitions

The following words and terms, when used in this subchapter, shall have the following
meanings unless the context clearly indicates otherwise.

"Breeding population" means, for birds, the species' population, or assemblage of
individuals of a species, present in the State during the nesting season (actual dates of the
nesting season vary among species).

"Butt-end band" means a band with an open seam locked around the leg of a bird of any
age using pliers or a similar tool and which is obtained from a source approved by the
Department, inscribed with a code approved by the Department in sizes stipulated by the
Department for each species of bird.

THIS IS A COURTESY COPY OF THIS RULE.  ALL OF THE DEPARTMENT’S

"Captive-bred bird" means any bird that is hatched in captivity from eggs produced by
captive parent birds.

"Color mutation" means a color which is different and distinctive from the normal,
natural color for that species of animal, as defined in reference texts commonly
recognized as authoritative in the field of zoology, ornithology or aviculture, which is
produced by breeding together animals with aberrant (mutated) color-producing genes.

"Department" means the State's Department of Environmental Protection.

"Director" means the Director of the Division or its successor within the Department of
Environmental Protection.

"Division" means the Division of Fish and Wildlife or its successor within the
Department of Environmental Protection.

"Endangered" (E) means a species whose prospects for survival within the State are in
immediate danger due to one or many factors: a loss of or change in habitat,
overexploitation, predation, competition, disease. An endangered species requires
immediate assistance or extinction will probably follow. See N.J.A.C. 7:25-4.13(b) for
listing.

"Exotic mammal, bird, reptile or amphibian", means any nongame species or mammal,
bird, reptile or amphibian not indigenous to New Jersey.

"Non-breeding population" means, for birds, the species' population, or assemblage of
individuals of a species, present in the State during the parts of the year outside of the
nesting season (actual dates of the nesting season vary among species).

"Nongame species" means any wildlife for which a legal hunting or trapping season has
not been established in New Jersey or which has not been classified as an endangered
species by statute or regulation of this State.

"Person" shall be defined to include but not limited to corporations, companies,
associations, societies including non-profit organizations, firms, partnerships, joint stock
companies, individuals and governmental entities.

"Seamless leg band" means a solid ring leg band from a source approved by the
Department, inscribed with a code approved by the Department, in sizes stipulated by the
Department for each species of bird, which is slipped onto the leg of a newly hatched
captive-bred bird and which is incapable of being removed or reopened when the bird has
reached adult size without either destroying the band or injuring the bird.

THIS IS A COURTESY COPY OF THIS RULE.  ALL OF THE DEPARTMENT’S

"Secure-stable" (S) means a species that appears to be secure in the State and not in any
immediately foreseeable danger of becoming "endangered," "threatened," or "special
concern."

"Special concern" (SC) means a species that warrants special attention by the Department
because of inherent vulnerability to environmental deterioration or habitat modification
that would result in its becoming threatened if conditions surrounding the species begin
or continue to deteriorate. Factors that can lead to classification as special concern
include, but are not limited to, species rarity in the State, highly specialized food and/or
habitat requirements, low reproductive rate, isolated populations of the species within the
State and/or other characteristics that make the species particularly susceptible to
environmental or habitat changes. This category includes a species that meets the
foregoing criteria and for which there is little understanding of its current population
status in the State.

"Threatened" (T) means a species that may become endangered if conditions surrounding
it begin to or continue to deteriorate.

"Undetermined-unknown" (U) means a species that cannot be assigned a status of
endangered, threatened, special concern or secure-stable because not enough information
exists on which to base such a determination.

"Wild bird" means any bird other than a native, introduced, or feral game bird as defined
in N.J.S.A. 23:4-49 and other than a domesticated bird such as a chicken, turkey, guinea
fowl, goose, duck, pigeon, or peafowl. "Wild bird" also means the egg of a wild bird

7:25-4.2 Permit required

(a)  Except as hereinafter provided, no person shall possess any nongame species or
exotic species of any mammal, bird, reptile or amphibian unless such person has first
received both the appropriate permit from the Department as listed in N.J.A.C. 7:25-
4.6(a) as well as any other state, municipal, or Federal permits or licenses which may be
required to possess such species. Any permit issued to an applicant by the Department for
the possession of any animal shall not exempt that applicant from compliance with any
other law of the State of New Jersey or any municipal or Federal law. An application to
the Department for a permit shall be made using the form prescribed by the Department.
Any false representation by the applicant or a permittee who knows or reasonably should
know that the representation is false, and who has submitted the representation to induce
the Department to issue a permit or take any other action, shall subject the applicant or
permittee to all penalties available under State law, including revocation of any permit
obtained based upon false information. All permits issued by the Department under this
chapter are valid only when used by the permittee in accordance with the terms and
conditions of the permit and the regulations governing that permit. The Department shall,
upon written notice to the permittee, revoke any permit listed in N.J.A.C. 7:25-4.6(a)
issued to any person who ceases to consistently meet the eligibility criteria for that
THIS IS A COURTESY COPY OF THIS RULE.  ALL OF THE DEPARTMENT’S

particular permit and may, in its discretion, seek an order from the Director or a court of
competent jurisdiction allowing immediate removal of any animal possessed under that
permit. Written notices of violation against a permittee shall set forth the terms of the
permit or the regulation which the Department alleges the permittee has violated and the
penalty sought. Notices of violation shall be brought and if not settled, contested,
pursuant to the Administrative Procedure Act, N.J.S.A. 52:14-1 et seq., or the rules of the
court with jurisdiction over the claim of violation. The Department may settle all claims
for penalties pursuant to N.J.S.A. 23:2A-10. Revocation of all Department-issued permits
for repeated violations shall occur as set forth in (c) below.

(b)  No person shall liberate within this State any nongame species or exotic mammal,
bird, reptile or amphibian unless such person has first received a permit from the
Department which explicitly allows the release of nongame species or exotic mammals,
birds, reptiles or amphibians.

(c)  Upon written notice to the permittee, the Department may suspend any type of exotic
or nongame species permit described in (a) above as listed in N.J.A.C. 7:25-4.6 for six
months based upon final agency action establishing that a violation of a permit condition
has occurred or that a violation of any regulation appearing in this subchapter has
occurred as a result of a plea of guilt, court conviction or final agency action establishing
guilt. A notice of suspension may be mailed to the permittee together with any
administrative notice of violation on which it is based, but the suspension shall not take
effect until the deadline to request a hearing concerning the notice of violation has
elapsed. In the event of a timely request to the Department for a hearing on an
administrative notice of violation, no proposed suspension shall take effect until final
agency action on the notice of violation and, if appealed, until all appeals of the final
agency action have been concluded and the violation has been affirmed. In the event of
municipal or Superior Court conviction of a violation of any regulation in this subchapter,
no proposed suspension mailed to the permittee shall take effect until all appeals from the
conviction have been concluded and conviction of the violation has been affirmed. If the
permit expires during the period of its suspension, no application for any other permit to
reacquire possession of any animal possessed pursuant to the suspended permit may be
made until the six month suspension period has elapsed. During the suspension period, all
animals possessed pursuant to any suspended permit must be removed from the custody
and control of the permittee and placed in the custody of an individual licensed by the
Division or, as permitted by Federal law, with a person residing outside of New Jersey in
accordance with that state's laws, at the sole expense of the permittee.

(d)  Upon written notice to the permittee, the Department may revoke all Division-issued
permits described in (a) above as listed in N.J.A.C. 7:25-4.6 upon a finding that in any
five year period, two or more violations of any permit condition or any regulations
appearing in this subchapter have occurred. Except by order of the Division Director as
provided below, no permit whatsoever shall be issued by the Division to the violator of
permit conditions or regulations within two years from the date of the final agency action
affirming a violation or within two years of a conviction or guilty plea in municipal or
THIS IS A COURTESY COPY OF THIS RULE.  ALL OF THE DEPARTMENT’S

Superior Court, whichever constitutes the second violation or within three years from the
date of the final agency action affirming a violation or within three years of a conviction
or guilty plea in municipal or superior court, whichever constitutes the third or
subsequent violation. The two and three year period of disqualification above shall be
computed beginning from the date of any court order or final agency action affirming the
violation which is not appealed, or, if appealed, from the filing date of the order as
entered by the last court of competent jurisdiction to which any party has appealed which
affirms the conviction or final agency action. In the event of the imposition of a two or
three year period of disqualification, a permittee whose violations do not arise from
possession of animals authorized pursuant to a hobby permit previously issued to the
now-disqualified permittee may petition the Division Director to retain the hobby permit
and the animal specifically authorized for possession pursuant to that permit which was
in the physical possession of the permittee prior to the date of the Notice of Revocation if
the Director determines, in his or her sole discretion and based upon the evidence
submitted by the permittee, that there is a high probability that the animal's well-being
will be jeopardized or its life endangered if the animal is separated from daily contact
with the permittee during the course of the disqualification period. In the event the
Director denies this petition, the former permittee may petition the Director for
permission to reapply for a hobby permit to regain possession of the animal if the
Division Director determines that there is physical evidence verified by an affidavit from
a licensed veterinarian submitted by the former permittee that the animal's life is plainly
in danger or its well-being is jeopardized solely as a result of its separation from the
former permittee. The permittee may not possess any animals under a hobby permit
issued or extended at the discretion of the Director other than those animals authorized by
the Director and originally possessed by the permittee and the offspring from
interbreeding between those individual animals. No animal may be possessed pursuant to
a hobby permit extended by discretion of the Director if possession of the animal violates
any Federal, state or local law.

1.  The violator may request a hearing to contest an administrative notice of
violation, proposed suspension or revocation, as the case may be, in accordance
with the Administrative Procedure Act, N.J.S.A. 52:14B-1 et seq., and the
Uniform Administrative Procedure Rules of Practice, N.J.A.C. 1:1. No
administrative hearing shall be afforded a violator in order to contest a notice of
proposed suspension or revocation based upon repeated violations as set forth in
(c) above when the objection to the proposed suspension or revocation constitutes
a challenge to the facts underlying a violation for which an opportunity for a
hearing and appeal has already been afforded the permittee.

2.  The request for an administrative hearing must be received in writing by the
Department within 20 days from the date of mailing of the Division's notice of violation
or intent to suspend or revoke the permit. If a timely request for a hearing concerning any
notice of proposed agency action is not received by the Department, any alleged violation
contained in the notice shall be deemed admitted by the permittee and any suspension or
revocation proposed in that notice, or in any separately-mailed notice, shall become
THIS IS A COURTESY COPY OF THIS RULE.  ALL OF THE DEPARTMENT’S

effective without further action by the agency on the date stipulated in the notice of
suspension or revocation

7:25-4.3 Exotic species and nongame species requiring a permit for possession

(a)  Exotic species and nongame species requiring a permit for possession include, but
are not limited to, the following:

1.  Birds:

i.  Red-fronted parrot--Amazona viridigenalis;

ii.  Turquoise-fronted parrot--Amazona aestiva;

iii.  Yellow-cheeked parrot--Amazona a. autumnalis;

iv.  Half-moon conure--Aratinga canicularis eburnirostrum;

v.  Jenday parrot--Aratinga jendays;

vi.  African gray parrot--Psittacus erithacus;

vii.  Macaws--Ara spp. & Anodorhynchus spp. (Except endangered
forms).

2.  Mammals:

i.  Ferrets--Mustela pertorius furo;

ii.  Kinkajou--Potos flavus;

iii.  Coatimundi--Nasua spp.;

iv.  European hedgehog--Erinaceus europeaus;

v.  Exotic Sheep--Except Ovis aries;

vi.  Exotic Goats--except Capra hircus.

3.  Reptiles:

i.  Pythons--Family Pythonidae;

ii.  Rat Snakes--Elaphe spp.;

THIS IS A COURTESY COPY OF THIS RULE.  ALL OF THE DEPARTMENT’S

iii.  Boas--Family Boidae (other than Boa Constrictors);

iv.  King Snakes--Lampropeltis spp.;

v.  Racer--Coluber spp.;

vi.  Ringneck Snakes--Diadophis punctatus;

vii.  Green Snakes--Opheodrys spp.;

viii.  Collared Lizard--Crotaphytus collaris;

ix.  Monitor--Varanus spp.;

x.  Skinks--Family Scincidae;

xi.  Ameiva--Ameiva spp.;

xii.  Chuckwalla--Sauromalus obesus;

xiii.  Alligator Lizard--Gerrhonitus spp.;

xiv.  Geckos-family--Gekkonidae other than Tokay Gecko;

xv.  Armadillo Lizard--Cordylus cataphractus;

(b)  The Department may issue a permit for the possession of the above exotic mammals,
birds, reptiles or amphibians or nongame species provided the applicant has satisfactorily
met the criteria contained within N.J.A.C. 7:25-4.7.

7:25-4.4 Exempted species

(a)  The following listed species of exotic or nongame mammals, birds, reptiles, or
amphibians may be possessed in this State without a permit.

1.  Birds:

i.  Budgerigar--Melopsittacus undulatus;

ii.  Cockatiel--Nymphicus hollandicus;

iii.  Peafowl--Pavo cristatus;

iv.  Rock dove--Columba livia;

THIS IS A COURTESY COPY OF THIS RULE.  ALL OF THE DEPARTMENT’S

v.  Canary--Serinus canaria;

vi.  House sparrow--Passer domesticus;

vii.  European starling--Sturnis vulgaris;

viii.  Zebra finch--Poephila guttatus;

ix.  Society finch--Lonchura domesticus;

x.  Ostrich--Struthio camelus;

xi.  Greater Rhea--Rhea americana;

xii.  Lesser Rhea--Rhea pennata;

xiii.  Emu--Dromaius novaehollandiae.

2.  Mammals:

i.  Hamster--Mesocricetus auratus;

ii.  Gerbil--Meriones mongolinensis;

iii.  Guinea pig-Cavia porcellus;

iv.  Pigmy goats-Carpa hircus;

v.  Mice and Rats-Mus spp. and Rattus spp.;

vi.  Chipmunk-Tamias spp. & Eutamias spp.;

vii.  Red Squirrel-Tamiasciurus hudsonicus & douglasii;

viii.  Flying Squirrel--Glaucompys spp.;

ix.  Alpaca--Vicugna pacos;

x.  Guanaco--Lama guanicoe;

xi.  Llama--Lama glama;

xii.  Bison (American buffalo)--Bison bison.

3.  Reptiles:
THIS IS A COURTESY COPY OF THIS RULE.  ALL OF THE DEPARTMENT’S

i.  American anole-Anolis carolinensis;

ii.  Common iguana-Iguana iguana;

iii.  Boa Constrictor-Constrictor constrictor;

iv.  Eastern painted turtles-Chrysemys picta picta;

v.  Snapping turtles-Chelydra serpentina;

vi.  Fence lizard-Sceloporus occidentalis & undulatus;

vii.  Garter snake-Thamnophia spp. (except T. sirtalis tetrataenia);

viii.  Tokay gecko-Gekko gecko;

ix.  Ribbon snake-Thamnophis spp. (except T. sirtalis tetrataenia).

4.  Amphibians:

i.  Leopard frogs-Rana pipiens;

ii.  Green frogs-Rana clamitans;

iii.  American toad-Bufo woodhousei americana;

iv.  Fowlers toad-B.w.fowleri;

v.  Bullfrogs-Rana catesbiana;

vi.  Red Newts-Notophthalmus viridescens;

vii.  Dusky salamanders-Desmognathus fuscus.

(b)  Such exotic or nongame mammals, birds, reptiles or amphibians must be housed or
caged in such a manner as to prevent liberation

7:25-4.5 Additional species

A permit shall be required for any other exotic mammals, birds, reptiles or amphibians or
nongame species not specifically exempted by N.J.A.C. 7:25-4.4.

THIS IS A COURTESY COPY OF THIS RULE.  ALL OF THE DEPARTMENT’S

7:25-4.6 Categories of permits, expiration, fees, sales receipts required, records and
reports required

(a)  The Division may issue, but shall not be limited to, the following categories of
permits:

1.  Individual hobby--issued to persons holding exotic mammals, birds, reptiles or
amphibians or nongame species for hobby purposes or as pets.

2.  Scientific holding--issued to qualified persons holding exotic mammals, birds,
reptiles or amphibians or nongame species for scientific observation, captive
breeding attempts and other scientific or educational study.

3.  Zoological holding--issued to private and public institutions which exhibit
exotic mammals, birds, reptiles or amphibians or nongame species, including
possession, importation, exportation and sale of species listed in the permit.

4.  Pet shop--issued to individuals and establishments engaged in the retail sale of
exotic mammals, birds, reptiles or amphibians or nongame species, including
importation, exportation and sale of species listed in the permit.

5.  Animal Dealer--issued to individuals and establishments engaged in the
wholesale of exotic mammals, birds, reptiles or amphibians or nongame species,
including importation, exportation and sale of species listed in the permit.

6.  Animal Exhibitor--issued to exhibitors of exotic mammals, birds, reptiles or
amphibians or nongame species other than zoos. Traveling exhibits, small
exhibitions not qualifying as zoos, and circuses are included, including
importation, exportation, and sale of species listed in the permit.

7.  Animal Theatrical Agencies--issued to persons owning exotic mammals, birds,
reptiles or amphibians or nongame species to be hired for advertising, acting or
theatrical appearances, including importation, exportation and sale of species
listed in the permit.

8.  Scientific Collecting--issued to persons to collect nongame species or escaped
exotic mammals, birds, reptiles or amphibians for scientific studies or other
approved purposes, when such activity is shown to have a beneficial effect on the
conservation of the species, the public welfare or the environment.

9.  Special Purpose Salvage--issued to persons or institutions to salvage dead
migratory birds or parts thereof for scientific or educational purposes.

THIS IS A COURTESY COPY OF THIS RULE.  ALL OF THE DEPARTMENT’S

10.  Special Wildlife Salvage--issued to persons or institutions to salvage dead
nongame species or parts thereof, other than migratory birds, for scientific or
educational purposes.

11.  Endangered Species--issued to persons or institutions for the possession of
endangered species for conservation or research purposes.

12.  Depredation Control--issued to persons or establishments to control nongame
species which are creating a hazard to public safety, crops, livestock or similar
concerns.

13.  Rehabilitation--issued to persons to rescue, rehabilitate and release nongame
and endangered birds.

14.  Bird Breeder--issued to persons meeting the regulatory criteria for possessing
wild-caught bird species to acquire birds for use as new breeding stock to increase
genetic variety (see N.J.A.C. 7:25-4.19). This permit does not authorize the resale
of wild-caught birds acquired under this permit except with the permission of the
Department to another holder of a bird breeder permit. Those engaged in the
retailing or wholesaling of birds must also have a pet shop or animal dealer
permit.

(b)  All possession permits shall expire on December 31 of the year of issue, unless
otherwise indicated.

(c)  The possession permits shall require an annual application and inspection fee as
listed:

Categories of Permits Annual Application
and Inspection Fee

Individual Hobby $ 10.00
Individual Hobby/Birds $ 20.00
Scientific Holding $ 35.00
Zoological Holding
--less than 10 animals $ 60.00
Zoological Holding
--more than 10 animals $ 110.00
Pet Shop $ 100.00
Animal Dealer $ 100.00
Animal Exhibitor
Single Exhibit $ 35.00
Annual $ 110.00
Animal Theatrical Agency $ 110.00
Scientific Collecting $ 22.00
THIS IS A COURTESY COPY OF THIS RULE.  ALL OF THE DEPARTMENT’S

Special Purpose Salvage $ 7.00
Special Wildlife Salvage $ 7.00
Endangered Species $ 7.00
Depredation Control $ 22.00
Rehabilitation $ 7.00
Bird Breeder $ 150.00

(d)  Pet shop, animal dealer, zoo, nature center and animal theatrical agency possession
permits must be displayed in a prominent place. The sale of exotic mammals, birds,
reptiles or amphibians, or nongame species to any individual must be accompanied by an
"Exotic or Nongame Sales Receipt" the form of which shall be prescribed by the
Department, and an application packet. This "Exotic or Nongame Sales Receipt" will be a
temporary possession permit valid for a period of 20 days after the date of sale.

(e)  Pet shops and animal dealers shall submit to the Division an annual inventory of
acquisitions, sales and exchanges, and white copies of temporary permits issued for sale
of any regulated species, upon expiration or renewal of their permits.

(f)  Zoos and nature centers must submit quarterly reports of birth, deaths, acquisitions
and disposals.

(g)  Periodic inspections shall be made by Division designated personnel and shall consist
of examination of exotic mammals, birds, reptiles or amphibians or nongame species,
their food, facilities, holding pen and exhibit area, and a review of relevant records
pertaining to these species.

(h)  Animal exhibitors and animal theatrical agencies shall notify the Division no less
than two weeks prior to any scheduled activity in New Jersey covered by permit in order
to permit inspection of the activity by Division personnel.

(i)  Persons holding permits listed above at (a)8 to 12 shall submit reports to the Division
of permit activities no more than one month after the expiration of their permits.

(j)  Any person holding an Exotic or Nongame Species Possession Permit pursuant to this
subchapter which expires or is revoked shall file a report with the Division within 15
days after expiration or revocation explaining the final disposition of all animals in his or
her possession during the calendar year of issue. The explanation shall set forth the
following information: the species and number of individuals of each species possessed;
the date of birth and current age of each animal; births; deaths and cause of each death;
the complete name, address and telephone number of the person to whom an animal was
transferred or sold; the date the animal was transferred or sold; and the current location of
each animal's records.

(k)  Pet shops or other establishments dealing in birds other than canary, budgerigar and
cockatiel shall prominently display a sign visible to the public on the premises where
THIS IS A COURTESY COPY OF THIS RULE.  ALL OF THE DEPARTMENT’S

such birds are offered for sale, which states: After December 10, 1991, only captive-bred
birds or birds legally in possession pursuant to New Jersey regulations prior to December
10, 1991 may be offered for sale or purchased in New Jersey. All birds offered for sale
except those exempted by New Jersey regulations, must also be marked with a band or
micro-chip approved by the New Jersey Division of Fish and Wildlife. To report
violations, or questions, call (908) 735-5450.

7:25-4.7 General possession criteria

(a)  Prior to the issuance of any permit permitted by these regulations, every applicant
shall, on the forms provided by the Department, demonstrate that:

1.  The animal will be fed an adequate diet; and

2.  The animal is housed or caged in a manner that:

i.  Allow the animal to perform the normal behavior patterns of its species;
and

ii.  Prevents disease, liberation or accidental injury to the animal and the
public; and

3.  The method of acquisition did not violate the laws and regulations of this
State, any other state or the Federal Government; and

4.  The animal shall receive prompt treatment for any illness or injury from a
licensed veterinarian; and

5.  The animal is free of infectious diseases and parasites which may be dangerous
to the animal, livestock or people of the State, provided that the Division may
request certification that the animal for which the permit is being sought is free
from infectious diseases and parasites from a licensed New Jersey veterinarian or
a person recognized as qualified to make such certification by the Director of the
Division of Fish, Game and Shellfisheries.

7:25-4.8 Potentially dangerous species

(a)  "Potentially dangerous species" is defined as any exotic mammals, birds, reptiles or
amphibians or nongame species which, in the opinion of the Division, is capable of
inflicting serious or fatal injuries or which has the potential to become an agricultural pest
or a menace to the public health or indigenous wildlife populations, including, but not
limited to the following:

Class/Order Family/Genus
Primates Cebidae--New World Monkeys
THIS IS A COURTESY COPY OF THIS RULE.  ALL OF THE DEPARTMENT’S

 Cercophithecidae--Old World
 Monkeys and Baboons
 Pongidae--Apes

Carnivora Canidae--Nondomestic dogs
 Ursidae--Bears
 Felidae--Nondomestic cats

Saura (Venomous) Helodermatidae--Gila Monsters

Serpentes (Venomous) Elapidae--Coral snakes and cobras
 Viperidae--Vipers
 Crotalidae--Pit Vipers

Crocodilia Alligatoridae--Alligators and caiman
 Crocodylidae--crocodiles
 Gavialidae--gavials

Psittaciformes Psittaculis spp.--Ring-necked parakeets
 Myiopsitta spp.--Monk parakeets
 Cyanoliseus patagonus--
 Patagonian Conures

Rodentia Cynomys spp.--Prairie dogs
 Spermophilus spp.--Ground Squirrels

(b)  The Department, in its discretion, may issue a permit for possession of a potentially
dangerous species only after a clear showing that the criteria for the possession of such
potentially dangerous species contained in N.J.A.C. 7:25-4.9 have been met.

7:25-4.9 Criteria for the possession of potentially dangerous species

(a)  In addition to the general criteria enumerated above in N.J.A.C. 7:25-4.7, every
person applying for a permit to possess potentially dangerous species shall meet each and
every of the following criteria to the satisfaction of the Division.

1.  Education and Background: Persons wishing to apply for a permit to possess a
potentially dangerous species must have extensive experience in maintaining the
species desired or related species.

2.  Knowledge: Persons wishing to apply for a permit to possess potentially
dangerous species must demonstrate a working knowledge and expertise in
handling and caring for each of the species desired.

THIS IS A COURTESY COPY OF THIS RULE.  ALL OF THE DEPARTMENT’S

3.  Protection of the Public: The housing facilities shall also be constructed to
prevent public access to and contact with the animal. The potentially dangerous
species shall not be kept as a pet, for hobby purposes or in situations, which, in
the judgment of the Department, could adversely affect the health of the animal or
which could constitute a hazard to the public.

4.  Purpose and Intent: Persons applying to possess potentially dangerous species
must submit a written statement of the purpose and intent of keeping the species.

5.  Housing and Feeding: Persons applying for a permit to possess a potentially
dangerous species must supply a written description of the housing and caging
facilities for the species required. A summary must be submitted of a continuous
source of food for the specific diet of the animals. Division personnel may inspect
the completed facilities to determine if the facilities are suitable for the animal.
Facilities must be constructed to prevent the possible escape of the animal.

6.  Other restrictions: Under no circumstances shall a person issued a pet shop or
animal dealer permit possess any potentially dangerous species on the commercial
premises, except in emergencies and for a limited period of time as stipulated by
the Department in writing and subsequently agreed to by the animal dealer or pet
shop owner, who shall assume full responsibility for the safety and welfare of
both the animal and the public during its temporary storage. A potentially
dangerous animal already on display at the premises of a pet shop or animal
dealer and already under a permit for such display as of January 17, 1995 may
remain so displayed under the terms and conditions of that permit for the lifetime
of that animal.

7:25-4.10 Endangered species prohibited

(a)  Except as specifically hereinafter provided, no permit shall be issued for the
possession of any species designated as endangered by the U.S. Department of the
Interior or the New Jersey Department of Environmental Protection pursuant to N.J.S.A.
23:2A-4.

(b)  The Department, in its discretion, may issue a permit for the possession of any
designated endangered species only after a clear showing by the applicant that all the
requirements for the possession of endangered species (N.J.A.C. 7:25-4.14) are met. If
the designated endangered species is also designated as an exotic mammal, bird, reptile
or amphibian or nongame species or potentially dangerous species, the criteria
established by 7:25-4.7 and 7:25-4.9 must also be met.

7:25-4.11 Miscellaneous provisions

(a)  Any person who transfers possession, as distinguished from ownership, or location of
any animal for which a permit has been issued shall, within 48 hours, report to the
THIS IS A COURTESY COPY OF THIS RULE.  ALL OF THE DEPARTMENT’S

Division exactly which animals were transferred and the name and address of the person
to whom the animals were transferred.

(b)  (Reserved)

(c)  Exotic mammals, birds, reptiles or amphibians, or nongame species possessed under
these permits may be dispatched in a manner as directed by the Commissioner and
consistent with the provisions of the permit for legitimate purposes, including, but not
limited to, the following:

1.  Euthanasia of sick, injured or surplus animals, to cull individuals to prevent
overcrowding or spread of disease; such euthanasia can also be ordered by the
Commissioner when necessary to prevent spread of disease;

2.  To use as food, or to utilize the hide, skin, or other body parts;

3.  Euthanasia by an agent of the Division or as ordered by the Commissioner;

4.  When an animal creates a danger or serious threat to persons or other animals
as determined by the Commissioner; or

5.  Euthanasia of research animals held under the scientific holding permits or
scientific collecting permit

7:25-4.12 Notice of denial or permit, procedure, review, time limitations, hearing

(a)  In the event of a denial of an application for any permit required by this subchapter or
the revocation of any permit, the Division shall issue to the applicant or prior permittee a
written statement setting forth the reasons for the denial or revocation.

(b)  Any such person may request a hearing for a review of such determination within 30
days from the date of issuance of the denial, pursuant to the applicable provisions of the
Administrative Procedure Act. The request for a hearing shall be sent to the New Jersey
Department of Environmental Protection, Office of Administrative Hearings and Dispute
Resolution, ATTENTION: Adjudicatory Hearing Requests, 401 E. State Street, Mail
Code 401-07A, PO Box 420, Trenton, New Jersey 08625-0420.

(c)  Any permittee shall permit division personnel, at any reasonable time to inspect the
housing facilities of the animal or animals to determine compliance with the permit
requirements and criteria.

7:25-4.13 List of endangered species

(a)  N.J.S.A. 23:2A-4 provides that the Department shall conduct investigations
concerning wildlife in order to develop information relating to populations, distributions,
THIS IS A COURTESY COPY OF THIS RULE.  ALL OF THE DEPARTMENT’S

habitat needs, limiting factors and other biological and ecological factors. On the basis of
such investigations of wildlife and other available scientific and commercial data, the
Department may by regulation promulgate a list of those species and subspecies of
wildlife indigenous to the State which are determined to be endangered, giving their
common and scientific names by species and subspecies.

(b)  In accordance therewith, the following species are determined to be endangered:
1.  Shortnose Sturgeon, Acipenser brevirostrum
2.  Blue-spotted Salamander, Ambystoma laterale
3.  Eastern Tiger Salamander, Ambystoma tigrinum tigrinum
4.  Southern Gray Treefrog, Hyla chrysocelis
5.  Bog Turtle, Glyptemys muhlenbergi
6.  Timber Rattlesnake, Crotalus horridus horridus
7.  Corn Snake, Elaphe guttata guttata
8.  Bald Eagle, Haliaeetus leucocephalus (Breeding population)
9.  Peregrine Falcon, Falco peregrinus (Breeding population)
10.  Northern Goshawk, Accipiter gentilis (Breeding population)
11.  Northern Harrier, Circus cyaneus (Breeding population)
12.  Red-shouldered Hawk, Buteo lineatus (Breeding population)
13.  Short-eared Owl, Asio flammeus (Breeding population)
14.  Pied-billed Grebe, Podilymbus podiceps (Breeding population)
15.  Upland Sandpiper, Bartramia longicauda
16.  Sedge Wren, Cistothorus platensis
17.  Loggerhead Shrike, Lanius ludovicianus (Non-breeding population)
18.  Henslow's Sparrow, Ammodramus henslowii
19.  Vesper Sparrow, Pooecetes gramineus (Breeding population)
20.  Piping Plover, Charadrius melodus
21.  Roseate Tern, Sterna dougallii
22.  Least Tern, Sternula antillarum
23.  Black Skimmer, Rynchops niger
24.  Atlantic Hawksbill, Eretmochelys imbricata imbricata
25.  Atlantic Loggerhead, Caretta caretta
THIS IS A COURTESY COPY OF THIS RULE.  ALL OF THE DEPARTMENT’S

26.  Atlantic Ridley, Lepidochelys kempi
27.  Atlantic Leatherback, Dermochelys coriacea coriacea
28.  Sperm Whale, Physeter macrocephalus
29.  Blue Whale, Balaenoptera musculus
30.  Finback Whale, Balaenoptera physalus
31.  Sei Whale, Balaenoptera borealis
32.  Humpback Whale, Megaptera novaeangliae
33.  Northern Right Whale, Balaena glacialis
34.  Bobcat, Lynx rufus
35.  Eastern Woodrat, Neotoma floridana
36.  Mitchell's Satyr, Neonympha mitchellii mitchellii
37.  Northeastern Beach Tiger Beetle, Cicindela dorsalis dorsalis
38.  American Burying Beetle, Nicrophorus americanus
39.  Dwarf Wedgemussel, Alasmidonta heterodon;
40.  American Bittern, Botaurus lentiginosus (Breeding population)
41.  Appalachian Grizzled Skipper (butterfly), Pyrgus wyandot;
42.  Arogos Skipper (butterfly), Atrytone arogos arogos;
43.  Bronze Copper (butterfly), Lycaena hyllus;
44.  Queen Snake, Regina septemvittata
45.  Brook Floater (mussel), Alasmidonta varicosa;
46.  Green Floater (mussel), Lasmigona subviridis.
47.  Black Rail, Laterallus jamaicensis (Breeding population)
48.  Golden-winged Warbler, Vermivora chrysoptera (Breeding population)
49.  Red Knot, Calidris canutus (Non-breeding population)
50.  Indiana Bat, Myotis sodalis
51.  Gray Petaltail (dragonfly), Tachopteryx thoreyi.

7:25-4.14 Requirements for possession of endangered wildlife species

(a)  Individuals wishing to apply for a permit to possess endangered wildlife must meet
all criteria for a Federal endangered species permit (issued by the United States Fish and
Wildlife Service), when applicable, and for the New Jersey nongame and exotic species
THIS IS A COURTESY COPY OF THIS RULE.  ALL OF THE DEPARTMENT’S

permit pursuant to N.J.A.C. 7:25-4.7 (issued by the Division). The Department will
require and review the Federal permit before issuing a State permit.

(b)  The Division shall issue a permit for possession of specific individual animals
classified as endangered wildlife to an applicant who fulfills the criteria in (a) above, and
who:

1.  Has obtained a sponsoring organization and designated professional who have
submitted to the Division all information required in (a)2 and 3 below;

2.  Has submitted to the Division a detailed written proposal for scientific research
to be completed by the applicant within the time stated by the applicant which, in
the judgment of the Division, requires use of the species in question, will not
jeopardize the animal's health and has a reasonable probability of yielding, when
performed by the applicant under the supervision of the Division and the sponsor
pursuant to scientific protocol approved in writing by the Division, scientifically-
reliable, new information of use to researchers or zoologists specializing in the
study or conservation of the species in question;

i.  All proposals shall stipulate the intervals at which the applicant shall
submit periodic reports to the Division stating the applicant's progress
with the research and improvements in the applicant's expertise in
handling and caring for the animals; and

3.  Has submitted to the Division written records of the applicant's relevant
education, past and current research, publications, funding, equipment and any
other information (including personal demonstration as may be required by the
Division) which demonstrates to the satisfaction of the Division that the applicant
has working knowledge and expertise in handling and caring for the species in
question, and that it is reasonably probable that the applicant will accept guidance
from both the sponsor and the Division to improve that expertise and that the
applicant will accomplish the research within the time stated to the Division in
accordance with the scientific protocol approved by the Division.

(c)  Amateur attempts or intent to propagate an endangered species will not be considered
as sufficient purpose for an individual to be issued a permit to keep an endangered
species.

(d)  Applicants for a permit to possess endangered wildlife species in New Jersey must be
sponsored by a scientific institution, zoological society or similar organization accredited
by its professional peers. The goal of sponsorship is to improve the applicant's expertise
in the handling, care and breeding of the animal in question, to ensure that the applicant's
research requires use of the species in question and has a reasonable probability of
producing scientifically-reliable, new data useful to other researchers or zoologists
specializing in the study and conservation of the species in question. All research
THIS IS A COURTESY COPY OF THIS RULE.  ALL OF THE DEPARTMENT’S

proposals, scientific protocols (including the frequency of reports to the Division by the
applicant), and supervisory procedures must be described in writing to the Division by
the applicant and receive written approval from both the Division, the sponsor, and the
monitoring professional for a permit to be issued. Any permit issued pursuant to this
section is conditioned upon the applicant's consistent compliance with instruction from
the Division and the professional monitoring the applicant's research as well as the
diligent pursuit and timely completion of the Division-approved research project by the
applicant pursuant to the scientific protocols approved by the Division. Applicants shall
produce their research and exhibit their animals to Division personnel on 24 hours notice.
Should the Division determine that the applicant has failed to meet these conditions, the
Division shall suspend or revoke the applicant's permit and place the animals possessed
pursuant to that permit under immediate constructive seizure, pending permanent
removal of the animals by the Division from the possession of the applicant at the
applicant's own expense. All research by the applicant shall cease immediately upon
receipt of a notice of suspension or revocation, except as approved in writing by the
Division.

(e)  An offer of sponsorship must contain the following:

1.  An agreement to commit the organization to the responsibilities of sponsorship
as defined in this section, executed by the president, director or other employee of
the organization with authority to so bind the organization;

2.  Confirmation that the organization is acquainted with the relevant training and
experience of the applicant, has reviewed the applicant's proposed research and
has determined that it is reasonably probable that the proposed research, as
performed by the applicant pursuant to the supervision and scientific protocol
described by the sponsor shall yield scientifically-reliable, new information which
will be useful to other researchers or zoologists specializing in the study or
conservation of the species in question. All scientific protocol and supervisory
practices proposed are subject to approval by the Division. Any Division
modification of the proposed protocol or practices shall be resubmitted to the
sponsoring organization for its comment;

3.  The name and address of a professional with well-established, recently-
practiced expertise in the handling, care and breeding of the species at issue (or a
species closely related) who has agreed to monitor all aspects of the applicant's
research on behalf of the organization in accordance with the procedures
approved in advance of commencement of the work by the Division and fulfill all
the obligations set forth in (e)4 below. The sponsoring organization shall
acknowledge its responsibility to locate another professional with credentials
acceptable to the Division who shall monitor the applicant's work, report to the
Division, and fulfill all the obligations set forth in (e)4 below in the event the
professional initially chosen and approved by the Division is unable, for reasons
THIS IS A COURTESY COPY OF THIS RULE.  ALL OF THE DEPARTMENT’S

unrelated to the performance of the applicant, to continue in assisting the Division
in monitoring the applicant's work;

4.  A letter from the professional identified in (e)3 above which lists his or her
professional qualifications, verifies that he or she has personally met the
applicant, reviewed the applicant's relevant training and experience as well as the
proposed research, finds the research meritorious and believes, based upon his or
her experience, that it is reasonably probable that the proposed research, as
performed by the applicant within the time stated by the applicant pursuant to the
supervision and scientific protocol described by the professional, shall yield
scientifically-reliable, new information which will be useful to the other
researchers or zoologists specializing in the study or conservation of the species in
question. All scientific protocol and supervisory practices proposed are subject to
approval by the Division. Any Division modification of the proposed protocol or
practices shall be resubmitted for the professional's comment. The professional
shall agree in writing to guide the applicant in the proper handling, care and
breeding of the animals in question and review the applicant's research protocol
and data as frequently as needed to ensure the applicant's research meets the
criteria for the issuance of this permit. The professional shall agree to personally
meet with the applicant and review the applicant's work no less than once every
three months and to submit a written report to the Division on the applicant's
progress every three months. The applicant may prepare and submit this report as
long as the report is approved in writing by the professional in advance of its
submission to the Division. Reports must be submitted to the Division no later
than the 15th day following the end of each three month reporting period;

5.  A written statement that the professional agrees to notify the Division and the
sponsoring organization in writing if the applicant fails to follow the
professional's or the Division's guidance or the scientific protocol approved by the
Division and the professional believes that such failure is jeopardizing the
probability that scientifically-reliable, useful, new information shall be produced
as a result of the applicant's research or that the research cannot be accomplished
within the time stated by the applicant; and

6.  The applicant shall execute a written acknowledgement releasing the
Department, the sponsoring organization and any professionals monitoring the
applicant's work from liability for any damages of whatsoever nature arising from
the suspension of revocation of any permit issued by the Division. The applicant
shall be solely responsible for all costs of maintaining and relocating at the
direction of the Division all the animals possessed under this permit when a
permit is suspended, revoked or expires.

7:25-4.15 Protection of animal and welfare of public

THIS IS A COURTESY COPY OF THIS RULE.  ALL OF THE DEPARTMENT’S

(a)  Individuals applying for a permit to possess endangered wildlife species must supply
a written description of the housing and caging facilities for the species requested. A
summary must be submitted of a continuous feed source available for the specific diet of
the animals. Department personnel will inspect the completed facilities and determine if
the facilities are suitable for the animal. Facilities must be constructed to prevent the
possible escape of the animal.

(b)  The housing facilities must be constructed to prevent public access to and contact
with the animal, including all animals used for exhibition purposes. The animal may not
be kept as a pet, for hobby purposes or in situations which, in the judgment of the
Department, could adversely affect or provide no net benefit to the health of the animal or
the welfare of the species. The individual must demonstrate to the satisfaction of Division
personnel that the security of the housing and caging facilities protects the animal and the
public.

(c)  Qualified veterinarian service must be readily available to the animal at all times.

7:25-4.16 Violations

Any person violating any provision of these rules and regulations will be subject to the
penalties imposed by N.J.S.A. 23:2A-1 et seq.

7:25-4.17 List providing conservation status of New Jersey’s indigenous nongame
wildlife species

The following table sets forth the list and conservation status of nongame wildlife species
indigenous to New Jersey in their respective taxonomic classes. For the vertebrate classes
of mammals, birds, reptiles, and amphibians, the list is intended to include all indigenous
nongame species, that is, all species for which a legal hunting or trapping season has not
been established or that have not been classified as an endangered species and that are
native to the eastern United States and regularly and predictably occur within the State or
its waters. Freshwater and marine fish are not included on this list because none are
currently considered "nongame." For the invertebrate classes, the list includes only those
species for which the Department has determined that their status is either "threatened" or
"special concern." The list is ordered alphabetically by species' common names within
each taxonomic class.
Species     Scientific Name     Species
           Status*
BIVALVES
Creeper Strophitus undulates SC
Eastern Lampmussel Lampsilis radiate T
Eastern Pondmussel Ligumia nasuta T

* E means "Endangered;" S means "Secure-stable;" SC means "Special concern;" T means "Threatened;" and U means
"Undetermined-unknown." These terms are defined in N.J.A.C. 7:25-4.1.
THIS IS A COURTESY COPY OF THIS RULE.  ALL OF THE DEPARTMENT’S

Tidewater Mucket Leptodea ochracea T
Triangle Floater Alasmidonta undulate T
Yellow Lampmussel Lampsilis cariosa T

INSECTS
Allegheny River Cruiser Macromia alleghaniensis SC
Arrowhead Spiketail Cordulegaster oblique SC
Banner Clubtail Gomphus apomyius T
Brook Snaketail Ophiogomphus asperses T
Brush-tipped Emerald Somatochlora walshii SC
Checkered White Pontia protodice T
Cobra Clubtail Gomphus vastus SC
Coppery Emerald Somatochlora Georgiana SC
Crimson-ringed Whiteface Leucorrhinia glacialis SC
Dotted Skipper Hesperia attalus slossonae SC
Extra-striped Snaketail Ophiogomphus anomalus SC
Forcipate Emerald Somatochlora forcipata SC
Frosted Elfin Callophrys irus T
Georgia (Lakehurst) Satyr Neonympha areolatus septentrionalis SC
Golden-winged Skimmer Libellula auripennis SC
Green-faced Clubtail Gomphus viridifrons SC
Harpoon Clubtail Gomphus descriptus T
Harris' Checkerspot Chlosyne harrisii SC
Hessel's Hairstreak Callophrys hesseli SC
Hoary Elfin Callophrys polios SC
Hudsonian Whiteface Leucorrhinia hudsonica SC
Kennedy's Emerald Somatochlora kennedyi T
Leonard's Skipper Hesperia leonardus SC
Maine Snaketail Ophiogomphus mainensis SC
Midland Clubtail Gomphus fraternus SC
New England Bluet Enallagma laterale SC
Northern Metalmark Calephelis borealis SC
Pine Barrens Bluet Enallagma recurvatum SC
Rapids Clubtail Gomphus quadricolor SC
Robust Baskettail Epitheca spinosa T
Sable Clubtail Gomphus rogersi SC
Scarlet Bluet Enallagma pictum SC
Septima's Clubtail Gomphus septima SC
THIS IS A COURTESY COPY OF THIS RULE.  ALL OF THE DEPARTMENT’S

Silver-bordered Fritillary Bolaria selene myrina T
Ski-tailed Emerald Somatochlora elongate SC
Spatterdock Darner Rhionaeschna mutate SC
Subarctic Darner Aeshna subarctica SC
Superb Jewelwing Calopteryx amata T
Tiger Spiketail Cordulegaster erronea SC
Two-spotted Skipper Euphyes bimacula SC
Williamson's Emerald Somatochlora williamsoni SC
Zebra Clubtail Stylurus scudderi SC

AMPHIBIANS
Allegheny Dusky Salamander Desmognathus ochrophaeus U
Barking Treefrog Hyla gratiosa U
Carpenter Frog Lithobates virgatipes SC
Eastern American Toad Anaxyrus americanus americanus S
Eastern Mud Salamander Pseudotriton m. montanus T
Eastern Spadefoot Scaphiopus holbrookii U
Four-toed Salamander Hemidactylium scutatum U
Fowler's Toad Anaxyrus fowleri SC
Jefferson Salamander Ambystoma jeffersonianum SC
Longtail Salamander Eurycea l. longicauda T
Marbled Salamander Ambystoma opacum SC
New Jersey Chorus Frog Pseudacris kalmi U
Northern Cricket Frog Acris c. crepitans S
Northern Dusky Salamander Desmognathus fuscus S
Northern Gray Treefrog Hyla versicolor S
Northern Leopard Frog Lithobates pipiens U
Northern Red Salamander Pseudotriton r. ruber S
Northern Spring Peeper Pseudacris c. crucifer S
Northern Spring Salamander Gyrinophilus p. porphyriticus SC
Northern Two-lined Eurycea bislineata S
Salamander
Pickerel Frog Lithobates palustris S
Pine Barrens Treefrog Hyla andersonii T
Red-backed Salamander Plethodon cinereus S
Red-spotted Newt Notophthalmus v. viridescens S
Slimy Salamander Plethodon glutinosus S
THIS IS A COURTESY COPY OF THIS RULE.  ALL OF THE DEPARTMENT’S

Southern Leopard Frog Lithobates spenocephala utricularia S
Spotted Salamander Ambystoma maculatum S
Upland Chorus Frog Pseudacris feriarum U
Wood Frog Lithobates sylvatica S

REPTILES
Atlantic Green Turtle Chelonia mydas T
Common Map Turtle Graptemys geographica U
Common Musk Turtle Sternotherus odoratus S
Eastern Box Turtle Terrapene c. Carolina SC
Eastern Garter Snake Thamnophis s. sirtalis S
Eastern Hognose Snake Heterodon platirhinos S
Eastern King Snake Lampropeltis g. getula SC
Eastern Milk Snake Lampropeltis t. triangulum S
Eastern Mud Turtle Kinosternon s. subrubrum S
Eastern Painted Turtle Chrysemys p. picta S
Eastern Rat Snake Elaphe alleghaniensis U
Eastern Redbelly Turtle Pseudemys rubriventris U
Eastern Ribbon Snake Thamnophis s. sauritus S
Eastern Smooth Earthsnake Virginia v. valeriae U
Eastern Worm Snake Carphophis a. amoenus U
Five-lined Skink Eumeces fasciatus U
Ground Skink Scincella lateralis U
Midland Painted Turtle Chrysemys picta marginata U
Northern Black Racer Coluber c. constrictor U
Northern Brown Snake Storeria d. dekayi S
Northern Copperhead Agkistrodon contortrix mokasen SC
Northern Fence Lizard Sceloporus undulatus hyacinthinus S
Northern Pine Snake Pituophis m. melanoleucus T
Northern Red-bellied Snake Storeria o. occipitomaculata S
Northern Ringneck Snake Diadophis punctatus edwardsii S
Northern Scarlet Snake Cemophora coccinea copei U
Northern Water Snake Nerodia s. sipedon S
Rough Green Snake Opheodrys aestivus S
Smooth Green Snake Liochlorophis vernalis U
Southern Ringneck Snake Diadophis p. punctatus S
Spotted Turtle Clemmys guttata SC
THIS IS A COURTESY COPY OF THIS RULE.  ALL OF THE DEPARTMENT’S

Wood Turtle Glyptemys insculpta T

Species     Scientific Name  Breeding  Non-breeding
        Status  Status

BIRDS
Acadian Flycatcher    Empidonax virescens S  S
Alder Flycatcher    Empidonax alnorum S  S
American Avocet    Recurvirostra americana   S
American Bittern    Botaurus lentiginosus E  SC
American Golden-Plover   Pluvialis dominica    S
American Goldfinch   Spinus tristis  S  S
American Kestrel    Falco sparverius  T  T
American Oystercatcher   Haematopus palliates SC  SC
American Pipit    Anthus rubescens    S
American Redstart    Setophaga ruticilla  S  S
American Robin    Turdus migratorius  S  S
American Tree Sparrow   Spizella arborea    S
Baird's Sandpiper    Calidris bairdii    S
Bald Eagle    Haliaeetus leucocephalus E  T
Baltimore Oriole    Icterus galbula  S  S
Bank Swallow    Riparia riparia  S  S
Barn Owl     Tyto alba   SC  SC
Barn Swallow    Hirundo rustica  S  S
Barred Owl    Strix varia  T  T
Bay-breasted Warbler   Dendroica castanea    S
Belted Kingfisher    Megaceryle alcyon  S  S
Black-and-white Warbler   Mniotilta varia  S  S
Black Rail    Laterallus jamaicensis E  T
Black Vulture    Coragyps atratus  S  S
Black-bellied Plover   Pluvialis squatarola    S
Black-billed Cuckoo   Coccyzus erythropthalmus SC  S
Blackburnian Warbler   Dendroica fusca  SC  S
Black-capped Chickadee   Poecile atricapillus  S  S
Black-crowned Night-Heron   Nycticorax nycticorax T  SC
Black-headed Gull    Chroicocephalus ridibundus   S
Black-legged Kittiwake   Rissa tridactyla    S
Blackpoll Warbler    Dendroica striata    S
THIS IS A COURTESY COPY OF THIS RULE.  ALL OF THE DEPARTMENT’S

Black-throated Blue   Dendroica caerulescens SC  S
Warbler
Black-throated Green   Dendroica virens  SC  S
Warbler
Blue Grosbeak    Passerina caerulea  S  S
Blue Jay     Cyanocitta cristata  S  S
Blue-gray Gnatcatcher   Polioptila caerulea  S  S
Blue-headed Vireo    Vireo solitarius  SC  S
Blue-winged Warbler   Vermivora cyanoptera S  S
Boat-tailed Grackle    Quiscalus major  S  S
Bobolink     Dolichonyx oryzivorus T  SC
Bonaparte's Gull    Chroicocephalus philadelphia   S
Boreal Chickadee    Poecile hudsonicus    S
Broad-winged Hawk   Buteo platypterus  SC  S
Brown Creeper    Certhia americana  S  S
Brown Pelican    Pelecanus occidentalis   S
Brown Thrasher    Toxostoma rufum  SC  S
Brown-headed Cowbird   Molothrus ater  S  S
Buff-breasted Sandpiper   Tryngites subruficollis   S
Canada Warbler    Wilsonia canadensis SC  S
Cape May Warbler    Dendroica tigrina    S
Carolina Chickadee    Poecile carolinensis  S  S
Carolina Wren    Thryothorus ludovicianus S  S
Caspian Tern    Hydroprogne caspia SC  S
Cattle Egret    Bubulcus ibis  T  SC
Cedar Waxwing    Bombycilla cedrorum S  S
Cerulean Warbler    Dendroica cerulea  SC  SC
Chestnut-sided Warbler   Dendroica pensylvanica S  S
Chimney Swift    Chaetura pelagica   S  S
Chipping Sparrow    Spizella passerina  S  S
Chuck-will's-widow   Caprimulgus carolinensis S  S
Cliff Swallow    Petrochelidon pyrrhonota SC  S
Common Grackle    Quiscalus quiscula  S  S
Common Loon    Gavia immer    S
Common Nighthawk   Chordeiles minor  SC  SC
Common Raven    Corvus corax  S  S
Common Redpoll    Acanthus flammea    U
Common Tern    Sterna hirundo  SC  S
THIS IS A COURTESY COPY OF THIS RULE.  ALL OF THE DEPARTMENT’S

Common Yellowthroat   Geothlypis trichas  S  S
Connecticut Warbler   Oporornis agilis    S
Cooper's Hawk    Accipiter cooperii  SC  S
Cory's Shearwater    Calonectris diomedea   S
Curlew Sandpiper    Calidris ferruginea    S
Dark-eyed Junco    Junco hyemalis  S  S
Dickcissel    Spiza americana    S
Double-crested Cormorant   Phalacrocorax auritus S  S
Dovekie     Alle alle     U
Downy Woodpecker   Picoides pubescens  S  S
Dunlin     Calidris alpina    S
Eastern Bluebird    Sialia sialis  S  S
Eastern Kingbird    Tyrannus tyrannus  S  S
Eastern Meadowlark   Sturnella magna  SC  SC
Eastern Phoebe    Sayornis phoebe  S  S
Eastern Screech-Owl   Megascops asio  S  S
Eastern Towhee    Pipilo erythrophthalmus S  S
Eastern Whip-poor-will   Caprimulgus vociferus SC  U
Eastern Wood Pewee   Contopus virens  S  S
Evening Grosbeak    Coccothraustes vespertinus   S
Field Sparrow    Spizella pusilla  S  S
Forster's Tern    Sterna forsteri  S  S
Fox Sparrow    Passerella iliaca    S
Glaucous Gull    Larus hyperboreus    S
Glossy Ibis    Plegadis falcinellus  SC  S
Golden Eagle    Aquila chrysaetos    S
Golden-crowned Kinglet   Regulus satrapa  S  S
Golden-winged Warbler   Vermivora chrysoptera E  SC
Grasshopper Sparrow   Ammodramus savannarum T  SC
Gray Catbird    Dumetella carolinensis S  S
Gray-cheeked Thrush   Catharus minimus    SC
Great Black-backed Gull   Larus marinus  S  S
Great Blue Heron    Ardea herodias  SC  S
Great Cormorant    Phalacrocorax carbo   S
Great Crested Flycatcher   Myiarchus crinitus  S  S
Great Egret    Ardea alba  S  S
Great Horned Owl    Bubo virginianus  S  S
THIS IS A COURTESY COPY OF THIS RULE.  ALL OF THE DEPARTMENT’S

Greater Shearwater    Puffinus gravis    S
Greater Yellowlegs    Tringa melanoleuca    S
Green Heron    Butorides virescens  S  S
Gull-billed Tern    Gelochelidon nilotica SC  SC
Hairy Woodpecker    Picoides villosus  S  S
Hermit Thrush    Catharus guttatus  S  S
Herring Gull    Larus argentatus  S  S
Hooded Warbler    Wilsonia citrina  SC  S
Horned Grebe    Podiceps auritus    S
Horned Lark    Eremophila alpestris T  SC
House Finch    Carpodacus mexicanus S  S
House Wren    Troglodytes aedon  S  S
Hudsonian Godwit    Limosa haemastica    S
Iceland Gull    Larus glaucoides    S
Indigo Bunting    Passerina cyanea  S  S
Ipswich Sparrow    Passerculus sandwichensis   SC
 princeps
Kentucky Warbler    Oporornis formosus SC  SC
Killdeer     Charadrius vociferous S  S
Lapland Longspur    Calcarius lapponicus   S
Lark Sparrow    Chondestes grammacus   S
Laughing Gull    Leucophaeus atricilla S  S
Leach's Storm-petrel   Oceanodroma leucorhoa   U
Least Bittern    Ixobrychus exilis  SC  SC
Least Flycatcher    Empidonax minimus SC  S
Least Sandpiper    Calidris minutilla    S
Lesser Black-backed Gull   Larus fuscus    S
Lesser Yellowlegs    Tringa flavipes    S
Lincoln's Sparrow    Melospiza lincolnii    S
Little Blue Heron    Egretta caerulea  SC  SC
Little Gull    Hydrocoloeus minutus   S
Long-billed Dowitcher   Limnodromus scolopaceus   S
Long-eared Owl    Asio otus   T  T
Long-tailed Jaeger    Stercorarius longicaudus   U
Louisiana Waterthrush   Parkesia motacilla  S  S
Magnolia Warbler    Dendroica magnolia S  S
Marbled Godwit    Limosa fedoa    S
THIS IS A COURTESY COPY OF THIS RULE.  ALL OF THE DEPARTMENT’S

Marsh Wren    Cistothorus palustris S  S
Merlin     Falco columbarius    S
Mississippi Kite    Ictinia mississippiensis   S
Mourning Warbler    Oporornis philadelphia   S
Nashville Warbler    Oreothlypis ruficapilla SC  S
Northern Cardinal    Cardinalis cardinalis S  S
Northern Flicker    Colaptes auratus  S  S
Northern Gannet    Morus bassanus    S
Northern Goshawk    Accipiter gentilis  E  SC
Northern Harrier    Circus cyaneus  E  SC
Northern Mockingbird   Mimus polyglottos  S  S
Northern Parula    Parula americana  SC  S
Northern Rough-winged   Stelgidopteryx serripennis S  S
Swallow
Northern Saw-whet Owl   Aegolius acadicus  U  S
Northern Shrike    Lanius excubitor    S
Northern Waterthrush   Parkesia noveboracensis S  S
Olive-sided Flycatcher   Contopus cooperi    S
Orange-crowned Warbler   Oreothlypis celata    S
Orchard Oriole    Icterus spurius  S  S
Osprey     Pandion haliaetus  T  S
Ovenbird     Seiurus aurocapilla  S  S
Palm Warbler    Dendroica palmarum   S
Parasitic Jaeger    Stercorarius parasiticus   S
Pectoral Sandpiper    Calidris melanotos    S
Peregrine Falcon    Falco peregrines  E  SC
Philadelphia Vireo    Vireo philadelphicus   S
Pied-billed Grebe    Podilymbus podiceps E  SC
Pileated Woodpecker   Dryocopus pileatus  S  S
Pine Grosbeak    Pinicola enucleator    S
Pine Siskin    Spinus pinus    S
Pine Warbler    Dendroica pinus  S  S
Pomarine Jaeger    Stercorarius pomarinus   S
Prairie Warbler    Dendroica discolor  S  S
Prothonotary Warbler   Protonotaria citrea  S  S
Purple Finch    Carpodacus purpureus S  S
Purple Martin    Progne subis  S  S
THIS IS A COURTESY COPY OF THIS RULE.  ALL OF THE DEPARTMENT’S

Purple Sandpiper    Calidris maritime    S
Razorbill     Alca torda    S
Red Crossbill    Loxia curvirostra  U  U
Red Phalarope    Phalaropus fulicarius   S
Red-bellied Woodpecker   Melanerpes carolinus S  S
Red-breasted Nuthatch   Sitta canadensis  S  S
Red-eyed Vireo    Vireo olivaceus  S  S
Red-headed Woodpecker   Melanerpes erythrocephalus T  T
Red-necked Grebe    Podiceps grisegena    S
Red-necked Phalarope   Phalaropus lobatus    S
Red-shouldered Hawk   Buteo lineatus  E  SC
Red-tailed Hawk    Buteo jamaicensis  S  S
Red-throated Loon    Gavia stellata    S
Red-winged Blackbird   Agelaius phoeniceus S  S
Ring-billed Gull    Larus delawarensis    S
Rose-breasted Grosbeak   Pheucticus ludovicianus S  S
Rough-legged Hawk   Buteo lagopus    S
Royal Tern    Sterna maxima    S
Ruby-crowned Kinglet   Regulus calendula    S
Ruby-throated Hummingbird   Archilochus colubris S  S
Ruddy Turnstone    Arenaria interpres    S
Ruff     Philomachus pugnax   S
Rusty Blackbird    Euphagus carolinus    S
Saltmarsh Sparrow    Ammodramus caudacutus SC  S
Sanderling    Calidris alba    SC
Savannah Sparrow    Passerculus sandwichensis T  S
Scarlet Tanager    Piranga olivacea  S  S
Seaside Sparrow    Ammodramus maritimus S  S
Semipalmated Plover   Charadrius semipalmatus   S
Semipalmated Sandpiper   Calidris pusilla    SC
Sharp-shinned Hawk   Accipiter striatus  SC  SC
Short-billed Dowitcher   Limnodromus griseus   S
Short-eared Owl    Asio flammeus  E  SC
Snow Bunting    Plectophenax nivalis   S
Snowy Egret    Egretta thula  SC  S
Snowy Owl    Nyctea scandiacus    S
Solitary Sandpiper    Tringa solitaria    S
THIS IS A COURTESY COPY OF THIS RULE.  ALL OF THE DEPARTMENT’S

Song Sparrow    Melospiza melodia  S  S
Sooty Shearwater    Puffinus griseus    S
Spotted Sandpiper    Actitis macularius  SC  S
Stilt Sandpiper    Calidris Himantopus   S
Summer Tanager    Piranga rubra  S  S
Swainson's Thrush    Catharus ustulatus    S
Swallow-tailed Kite   Elanoides forficatus   U
Swamp Sparrow    Melospiza Georgiana S  S
Tennessee Warbler    Oreothlypis peregrine   S
Thick-billed Murre    Uria lomvia    U
Tree Swallow    Tachycineta bicolor e  S  S
Tricolored Heron    Egretta tricolor  SC  SC
Tufted Titmouse    Baeolophus bicolor  S  S
Tundra Swan    Cygnus columbianus   S
Turkey Vulture    Cathartes aura  S  S
Veery     Catharus fuscescens SC  S
Vesper Sparrow    Pooecetes gramineus E  SC
Warbling Vireo    Vireo gilvus  S  S
Western Kingbird    Tyrannus verticalis    S
Western Sandpiper    Calidris mauri    S
Whimbrel    Numenius phaeopus   SC
White-breasted Nuthatch   Sitta carolinensis  S  S
White-crowned Sparrow   Zonotrichia leucophrys   S
White-eyed Vireo    Vireo griseus  S  S
White-rumped Sandpiper   Calidris fuscicollis    S
White-throated Sparrow   Zonotrichia albicollis S  S
White-winged Crossbill   Loxia leucoptera    U
Willet     Tringa semipalmata  S  S
Willow Flycatcher    Empidonax traillii  S  S
Wilson's Phalarope    Phalaropus tricolor    S
Wilson's Storm-petrel   Oceanites oceanicus   S
Wilson's Warbler    Wilsonia pusilla    S
Winter Wren    Troglodytes hiemalis SC  S
Wood Thrush    Hylocichla mustelina SC  S
Worm-eating Warbler   Helmitheros vermivorum SC  S
Yellow Rail    Coturnicops noveboracensis   U
Yellow Warbler    Dendroica petechia  S  S
THIS IS A COURTESY COPY OF THIS RULE.  ALL OF THE DEPARTMENT’S

Yellow-bellied Flycatcher   Empidonax flaviventris   S
Yellow-bellied Sapsucker   Sphyrapicus varius  S  S
Yellow-billed Cuckoo   Coccyzus americanus S  S
Yellow-breasted Chat   Icteria virens  SC  S
Yellow-crowned    Nyctanassa violacea T  T
Night-Heron
Yellow-rumped Warbler   Dendroica coronate  S  S
Yellow-throated Vireo   Vireo flavifrons  S  S
Yellow-throated Warbler   Dendroica dominica S  S

Species     Scientific Name     Species
           Status*
MAMMALS
Atlantic Spotted Dolphin Stenella frontalis U
Beluga Whale Delphinapterus leucas U
Big Brown Bat Eptesicus fuscus U
Blainville's Whale Mesoplodon densirostris U
Bottlenose Dolphin Tursiops truncates U
Clymene Dolphin Stenella clymene U
Cuvier's Whale Ziphius cavirostris U
Dwarf Sperm Whale Kogia simus U
Eastern Chipmunk Tamias striatus U
Eastern Mole Scalopus aquaticus U
Gervais Beaked Whale Mesoplodon europaeus U
Gray Seal Halichoerus grypus U
Hairy-tailed Mole Parascalops breweri U
Harbor Porpoise Phocoena phocoena U
Harbor Seal Phoca vitulina U
Harp Seal Pagophilus groenlandicus U
Hoary Bat Lasiurus cinereus U
Hooded Seal Cystophora cristata U
Keen Myotis Myotis keenii U
Killer Whale Orcinus orca U
Least Shrew Crytotis parva U
Little Brown Bat Myotis lucifugus U

* E means "Endangered;" S means "Secure-stable;" SC means "Special concern;" T means "Threatened;" and U means
"Undetermined-unknown." These terms are defined in N.J.A.C. 7:25-4.1.
THIS IS A COURTESY COPY OF THIS RULE.  ALL OF THE DEPARTMENT’S

Long-finned Pilot Whale Globicephala melas U
Long-tailed Shrew Sorex dispar U
Marsh Rice Rat Oryzomys palustris U
Masked Shrew Sorex cinereus U
Meadow Jumping Mouse Zapus hudsonius U
Meadow Vole Microtis pennsylvanicus U
Melon-headed Whale Peponocephala electra U
Minke Whale Balaenoptera acutorostrata U
New England Cottontail Sylvilagus transitionalis U
Northern Flying Squirrel Glaucomys sabrinus U
Northern Yellow Bat Lasiurus intermedius U
Pine Vole Pitymys pinetorum U
Porcupine Erethizon dorsatum U
Pygmy Sperm Whale Kogia breviceps U
Red Bat Lasiurus borealis U
Red Squirrel Tamiasciurus hudsonicus U
Red-backed Mouse Clethrionomys gapperi U
Risso's Dolphin Grampus griseus U
Short-beaked Common Dolphin Delphinus delphis U
Short-finned Pilot Whale Globicephala macrorhyncus U
Short-tailed Shrew Blarina brevicauda U
Silver-haired Bat Lasionycteris noctivagans U
Small-footed Myotis Myotis subulatus U
Smokey Shrew Sorex fumeus U
Southern Bog Lemming Synaptomys cooperi U
Southern Flying Squirrel Glaucomys volans U
Star-nosed Mole Condylura cristata U
Striped Dolphin Stenella coeruleoalba U
Tri-colored Bat Perimyotis subflavus U
True's Beaked Whale Mesoplodon mirus U
Tuckahoe Masked Shrew Sorex cinereus nigriculus U
Water Shrew Sorex palustris U
White-footed Mouse Peromyscus leucopus U
Woodland Jumping Mouse Napaeozapus isignis               U

* E means "Endangered;" S means "Secure-stable;" SC means "Special concern;" T means "Threatened;" and U means
"Undetermined-unknown." These terms are defined in N.J.A.C. 7:25-4.1.

THIS IS A COURTESY COPY OF THIS RULE.  ALL OF THE DEPARTMENT’S

7:25-4.18 Endangered and Nongame Species Advisory Committee

(a)  The Endangered and Nongame Species Advisory Committee (committee) shall
consist of 11 members appointed by the Commissioner. Prior to the making of any said
appointments, the Commissioner shall consult with the committee as to their
recommendations.
1.  Members shall be reflective of various public groups concerned with, and
supportive of, the endangered and nongame species program established by P.L.
1973, c.309, codified at N.J.S.A. 23:2A-1 to -13, and shall possess special
knowledge, expertise, and/or interest relating to endangered and nongame species
of New Jersey. Member affiliation shall be as follows:

   Affiliation     Number of Members
i. Academic/research communities 4

 ii. Public health/veterinary medicine 1

 iii. Qualified non-profit organization (as defined 3
 by the Internal Revenue Code at § 501(c)(3))
 with strong interest in promoting the
 nonconsumptive use of wildlife

 iv. Public at large (that is, not in the capacity 3
 of an organizational representative)

2.  Of the 11 members to be appointed by the Commissioner, initially, two shall
be appointed for a term of one year, three for a term of two years, three for a term
of three years, and three for a term of four years. Thereafter, all appointments
shall be made for terms of four years. All appointed members shall serve, after the
expiration of their terms, until their respective successors are appointed. Any
vacancy occurring in the appointed membership of the committee, by expiration
of term or otherwise, shall be filled by the Commissioner in the identical manner
as the original appointment, for the unexpired term only, notwithstanding that the
previous incumbent may have held over and continued in office as aforesaid.

3.  The Commissioner may remove any member of the committee for cause upon
notice and opportunity to be heard.

4.  The committee shall select its chairperson from its membership, subject to the
approval of the Commissioner, for a term of four years, and consecutive terms
shall be permitted.

(b)  The committee shall advise and assist the Commissioner in matters related to the
intent of "The Endangered and Nongame Species Act," P.L. 1973, c.309, codified at
N.J.S.A. 23:2A-1 to -13. Notwithstanding subsequent departmental action, the
THIS IS A COURTESY COPY OF THIS RULE.  ALL OF THE DEPARTMENT’S

Commissioner shall respond in writing to all reasonable written comments on policy
received from the committee.

(c)  The committee shall transmit its business during regular meetings, held once each
month, at a time and place designated by the committee. Adequate notice, as defined
under the "Open Public Meetings Law," P.L. 1975, c.231, codified at N.J.S.A. 10:4-6 to -
21, shall be given to the Secretary of State. Six members present shall constitute a
quorum.

(d)  Members of the committee shall serve without compensation, but shall be reimbursed
for expenses actually incurred in attending committee meetings and in the performance of
their duties as members thereof.
