SOURCE: New Jersey: N.J.A.C. 7:25-10, Captive Game Animal and Game Bird Regulations, with the Division's
        captive game synopsis and its policy on importing captive rabies vector species
sourceId: nj-7-25-10 / nj-captive-game-info
jurisdiction: NJ
URL: https://nj.gov/dep/fgw/pdf/captv_regs.pdf
     https://www.nj.gov/dep/fgw/pdf/captv_info.pdf
     https://www.nj.gov/dep/fgw/pdf/captv_rvs_policy.pdf
FETCHED: 2026-10-08 (plain curl with a browser User-Agent; pdftotext -layout)

READ THIS FIRST. Subchapter 4 is the exotic and NONGAME rule, and "nongame" means wildlife with no
hunting or trapping season. New Jersey's native furbearers have seasons, so they are GAME animals and
subchapter 4 never reaches them. This subchapter does. 10.6(a) names the raccoon, striped skunk, red
fox, gray fox, coyote, black bear and bobcat, and 10.7(a)1 offers an "Individual Hobby" permit "for
hobby purposes or as pets". The catch is 10.10: nondomestic dogs, bears and nondomestic cats are
potentially dangerous, and the synopsis says the Division "does not currently issue new permits for
the possession of potentially dangerous species within the hobby permit category". So the raccoon and
skunk are hobby-permit animals and the fox, bear and bobcat are not. The rabies vector species policy
bars importing a raccoon, skunk or fox from any state with a rabies variant other than the raccoon
variant, captive-bred or not.

==== N.J.A.C. 7:25-10 (Division handout of the rule) ====
                                        State of New Jersey
               Captive Game Animal and Game Bird Regulations
                                             N.J.A.C. 7:25-10

Subchapter 10.             Possession, Propagation, Liberation, Sale and Importation
                           of Game Animals and Game Birds
§ 7:25-10.1       Scope

   This subchapter shall constitute the rules governing the possession, propagation, liberation, sale and importation
of game mammals and game birds pursuant to N.J.S.A. 23:3-28 through 39.

§ 7:25-10.2       Construction

  This subchapter shall be liberally construed to permit the department to discharge its statutory functions.

§ 7:25-10.3       Purpose

    This subchapter is promulgated to regulate the possession, propagation, liberation, sale, and importation of
game mammals and game birds through a permit system, with conditions associated therewith, to be issued at the
discretion of the division.

§ 7:25-10.4       Definitions

  The following words and terms, when used in this subchapter, shall have the following meanings unless the
context clearly indicates otherwise.

 "Department" means the New Jersey Department of Environmental Protection.

  "Division" means the Division of Fish and Wildlife or its successor within the Department of Environmental
Protection.

  "Director" means the Director of Fish and Wildlife or his successor within the Department of Environmental
Protection.

   "Game animal" means any mammal for which a legal hunting or trapping season has been established in New
Jersey, identified in this subchapter, or designated a game animal by the Fish and Game Council in the annual game
code.

   "Game bird" means any bird for which a legal hunting season has been established in New Jersey, identified in
this subchapter, or designated a game bird by the Fish and Game Council in the annual game code.

   "Person" shall include, but is not limited to, corporations, companies, associations, societies including nonprofit
organizations, firms, partnerships, joint stock companies, individuals, and governmental entities.

   "Qualified person" means a natural person presenting to the division the written testimonials from two well-
known scientists certifying to the good character and fitness of the person to be entrusted with the privilege of
holding the relevant permit.

§ 7:25-10.5       Permit required
    (a) Except as hereinafter provided, no person shall have in possession any game animal or game bird unless that
person has first received a permit from the division. The permit form and permit application form shall be
prescribed by and be obtainable from the division.

   (b) No person shall liberate within this state any game animal or game bird unless that person has first received a
permit therefor from the division.

   (c) No person shall import into this state any game animal or game bird unless that person has first received a
permit therefor from the division.

    (d) The permit requirement pursuant to this section shall not apply to game animals and game birds legally taken
or killed pursuant to the general hunting and fishing license statutes, N.J.S.A. 23:3-1 through 22, and during the
season therefor.

§ 7:25-10.6       Game animals and game birds for which a permit is required for possession

  (a) A permit shall be required for possession of game animals including the following mammals:

   1. Eastern cottontail rabbit (Sylvilagus floridanus);

   2. Whitetail jackrabbit (Lepus townsendi);

   3. Blacktail jackrabbit (Lepus californicus);

   4. European hare (Lepus europaeus);

   5. Eastern gray squirrel (Sciurus carolinensis);

   6. Woodchuck (Marmota monax);

   7. Beaver (Castor canadensis);

   8. River otter (Lutra canadensis);

   9. Muskrat (Ondatra zibethicus);

   10. Nutria (Myocaster coypus);

   11. Mink (Mustela vison);

   12. Weasel (Mustela spp.);

   13. Virginia opossum (Didelphis virginiana);

   14. Striped skunk (Mephitis mephitis);

   15. Raccoon (Procyon lotor);

   16. Red fox (Vulpes vulpes);

   17. Gray fox (Urocyon cinereoargenteus);

   18. Coyote (Canis latrans);

   19. Black bear (Ursus americanus);
20. Bobcat (Felis rufus);

21. Whitetail deer (Odocoileus virginianus).

 (b) A permit shall be required for possession of the following game birds:

1. Family Anatidae:

  i. Geese;

 ii. Brant;

 iii. Tundra swans; and

 iv. Whistling, dabbling, diving, and sea ducks;

2. Family Rallidae:

 i. Rails;

 ii. Moorhens;

 iii. Coots; and

 iv. Mud hens;

3. Family Charadriidae:

 i. Plovers;

 ii. Surf birds; and

 iii. Shorebirds;

4. Family Scolopacidae:

 i. Sand pipers;

 ii. Woodcock;

 iii. Snipe;

 iv. Curlews; and

 v. Tattlers;

5. Family Meleagrididae:

  i. Wild turkeys;

6. Family Tetraonidae:

 i. Grouse; and

 ii. Prairie chickens;
   7. Family Phasianidae:

     i. Pheasants;

     ii. Partridges; and

     iii. Quails;

   8. Family Columbidae:

     i. Mourning dove; and

   9. Family Corvidae:

     i. Common crow.

    (c) The division may issue a permit for the possession of the mammals or birds listed in (a) and (b) above
provided the applicant has satisfactorily met the criteria contained within 7:25-10.8.

§ 7:25-10.7          Categories of permits, expiration, fees, sales receipt required, records and reports
                     required

  (a) The division, when it appears to be in the public interest, may issue the following permits:

   1. "Individual Hobby" may be issued to persons holding game animals for hobby purposes or as pets;

   2. "Scientific Holding" may be issued to qualified persons holding game animals or game birds for scientific
observation, captive breeding attempts and other scientific or educational study;

   3. "Zoological" may be issued to private and public institutions which exhibit game animals or game birds for
possession, importation, exportation, and sale of species listed in the permit;

   4. "Propagation and Sales" may be issued to persons engaged in the propagation and/or sale of game animals or
game birds for importation, exportation, and sale of species listed in the permit;

    5. "Animal Exhibitor" may be issued to exhibitors of game animals or game birds other than zoos, including
traveling exhibits, small exhibitions not qualifying as zoos, and circuses;

   6. "Animal Theatrical Agency" may be issued to persons owning game animals or game birds to be used for
advertising, acting, or theatrical appearances, permitting importation, exportation, and sale of species listed in the
permit;

   7. "Fur Farming" may be issued to persons engaged in the business of fur farming the species listed at 7:25-
10.6(a)7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17, 18, and 20; and

    8. "Cooperator" may be issued to persons who are deemed qualified by the Division under the criteria set forth in
the most current edition of the "Cooperator's Manual" or, in the absence of such manual, based on the need as
determined by the Division to rear orphaned juvenile wildlife species and rehabilitate injured wildlife species listed
under 7:25-10.6(a) and (b). Persons issued this permit must also maintain applicable federal permits where required.

   (b) All possession permits shall expire on December 31 of the year of issue.

   (c) The license fee for each permit shall be $ 5.00; provided, however, that there shall be no fee for the
Cooperator permit.
    (d) All permits must be displayed in a prominent place. The sale of game animals or game birds to any person
must be accompanied by a "Game Animal or Game Bird Sales Receipt," the form of which shall be prescribed by
and obtainable from the Division, and which shall serve as a temporary possession permit for a period of 20 days
after the date of sale.

   (e) Propagation and sales dealers shall submit to the Division an annual inventory of acquisitions, sales, and
exchanges upon expiration or renewal of their permits.

   (f) Zoological, Exhibitor, Theatrical, and Cooperator permit holders must submit quarterly reports of births,
deaths, acquisitions, and disposals.

    (g) Periodic inspections may be made by Division-designated personnel and shall consist of examination of game
animal or game bird, their food, facilities, holding pen and exhibit area, and a review of relevant records pertaining
to these species.

   (h) Animal exhibitors and animal theatrical agencies shall notify the Division no less than two weeks prior to any
scheduled activity in New Jersey covered by their permits in order to allow inspection of the activity by Division
personnel.

§ 7:25-10.8       General possession criteria

  (a) Prior to the issuance of any permit under this subchapter, the applicant shall, on forms provided by the
Division, demonstrate the following:

    1. The origin of the animal is not from the wild stock of this State or any other state except where authorized by
the Division for rehabilitative, scientific or other purposes consistent with the purposes of this subchapter as
determined by the Division.

   2. The animal will be fed an adequate diet;

   3. The animal is housed or caged in a manner that:

   i. Allows the animal to perform the normal behavior patterns of its species; and

   ii. Prevents disease, liberation, or accidental injury to the animal and the public;

   4. The method of acquisition did not violate the laws and regulations of this State, any other state, or the federal
government;

   5. Competent and adequate licensed veterinary services for the care and treatment of the animal are readily
available; and

    6. The animal is free of infectious diseases and parasites which may be dangerous to the animal, livestock, or
people of the State. The Division may request certification from a licensed New Jersey veterinarian or a person
recognized as qualified by the director to make such certification that the animal for which the permit is being
sought is free from infectious diseases and parasites.

§ 7:25-10.9       Emergency possession

  (a) Persons may temporarily possess without permit a game animal or game bird, other than a potentially
dangerous species defined at 7:25-10.10, which is orphaned, injured, or displaced provided that:

    1. The Division law enforcement office of jurisdiction, DEP Emergency Hotline, or the Wildlife Control Unit is
notified of such emergency possession within 12 hours of acquisition;
    2. The Division Wildlife Control Unit reviews the case for the purpose of prescribing a course of action that is in
the best interest of the animal or bird so possessed; and

   3. The emergency possession of the game animal or game bird does not violate any local ordinances or
requirements;

   4. Contact phone numbers for cases of emergency possession are as follows:

     i. Northern Region Law Enforcement Office (908) 735-8240;

     ii. Central Region Law Enforcement Office (609) 259-2120

     iii. Southern Region Law Enforcement Office (856) 629-0555;

     iv. DEP Emergency Action Hotline (24 hours) 1-877-927-6337; and

     v. Wildlife Control Unit (908) 735-8793.

   (b) The game animal or bird held without a permit therefor shall be surrendered upon demand by the Division.

 § 7:25-10.10 Potentially dangerous species

   (a) "Potentially dangerous species" is defined as any game animal or game bird which, in the opinion of the
Division, is potentially capable of inflicting serious or fatal injuries, of being an agricultural pest, of being
detrimental to existing or future wild populations, or of being a menace to public health, including, but not limited
to, the following:

Order

Family

Carnivora Canidae--Nondomestic dogs

 Ursidae--Bears

 Felidae--Nondomestic cats

Artiodactyla Cervidae--Deer

    (b) The Division, in its discretion, may issue a permit for possession of a potentially dangerous game animal or
game bird only after a clear showing that the criteria for the possession of such potentially dangerous game animal
or game bird have been met.

§ 7:25-10.11      Criteria for the possession of potentially dangerous species

  (a) In addition to the general criteria enumerated in 7:25-10.8, every person applying for a permit to possess
potentially dangerous species shall meet each of the following criteria to the satisfaction of the Division:

   1. Education and background: Persons wishing to apply for a permit to possess a potentially dangerous species
must have extensive experience in maintaining the species desired or related species;

   2. Knowledge: Persons wishing to apply for a permit to possess potentially dangerous species must demonstrate
a working knowledge and expertise in handling and caring for each of the species desired;

    3. Other licenses and permits: Persons applying to possess potentially dangerous species must obtain, in addition
to New Jersey Captive Game Animal or Game Bird Permit, all other applicable permits covering the possession of
such species. Any permit issued for the possession of such animal by the Division shall not exempt an applicant
from compliance with any other law of the State, or subDivision of the State, any municipality, or the Federal
government, regarding construction necessary to house the animal, or other local requirements;

    4. Purpose and intent: Persons applying to possess potentially dangerous species must submit a written statement
of the purpose and intent of keeping the species;

    5. Housing and feeding: Persons applying for a permit to possess a potentially dangerous species must supply a
written description of the housing and caging facilities for the species required including a summary detailing a
continuous source of food appropriate for the specific diet of the animals. Facilities must be constructed to prevent
the possible escape of the animal. Division personnel may inspect the completed facilities to determine if the
facilities are suitable for the game animal or game birds; and

   6. Protection of the public: The housing facilities must also be constructed to prevent public access to, and
contact with, the animal. The potentially dangerous species may not be kept as a household pet except when
compelled by the infancy of the animal. The public must not be allowed access to the animal, including animals
used for exhibition purposes.

§ 7:25-10.12      Denial, suspension, revocation, and hearings

  (a) The department may suspend the permits described in 7:25-10.7 and 7:25-10.10 for periods of time up to their
duration upon the violation of any permit condition or any regulation appearing in this subchapter. The department
may revoke the permits described in 7:25-10.7 and 7:25-10.10 upon finding in any five-year period two or more
violations of any permit condition(s) or any regulation appearing in this subchapter. After revocation, no permit
shall be issued to the violator within two years from the date of the second violation, or within three years from the
date of the third or subsequent violation.

   (b) In the event the department determines the necessity for denial of a permit application for, suspension of, or
revocation of, any permit described in 7:25-10.7 and 7:25-10.10, the department shall issue a notice of intent to
deny, suspend, or revoke, setting forth the reasons for such action. Where appropriate, a compliance directive shall
accompany the notice of intent.

     (c) The recipient of the notice of intent may request a contested case hearing in accordance with the
Administrative Procedure Act, N.J.S.A. 52:14B-1 et seq., and the Uniform Administrative Procedure Rules, 1:1, by
filing a written request with the Department therefor within 20 days from the receipt of the notice of intent described
above at (b). The request for a hearing shall be sent to the Office of Legal Affairs, ATTENTION: Adjudicatory
Hearing Requests, Department of Environmental Protection, PO Box 402, Trenton, New Jersey 08625-0402.

   1. A request for a contested case hearing shall clearly state:

    i. The name of the recipient;

   ii. The departmental decision from which the recipient seeks relief;

   iii. The details of how the departmental decision aggrieves the recipient; and

   iv. The findings of fact incorporated within the notice of intent that the recipient contests.

   2. The department shall review each hearing request and, upon a determination that the matter constitutes a
contested case, grant a hearing. The denial of a request for a contested case hearing shall be considered to be final
agency action on the matter.

   3. The granting of a request for a contested case hearing shall not automatically stay the suspension or
revocation.
    (d) In the case of a notice of suspension or revocation of a permit issued pursuant to 7:25-10.10(b), the recipient
of such notice shall immediately comply with any departmental directive as to disposal of the captive potentially
dangerous species.

    (e) Notwithstanding the provision at (c)3 above, in the case of a notice of suspension or revocation of a permit
issued pursuant to 7:25-10.7, the recipient of such notice shall comply with any departmental directive as to
disposal of the captive species upon final suspension or revocation.

§ 7:25-10.13      Miscellaneous provisions

  (a) Any person who transfers possession, as distinguished from ownership, or location of any game animal or
game bird for which a permit has been issued, shall, within 48 hours, report in writing to the division exactly which
animal(s) was transferred, the name and address of the person to whom the animal(s) was transferred and the
location to which the animal(s) was transferred. No transfer shall be permitted without prior written approval of the
division of a potentially dangerous species as defined at 7:25-10.10.

    (b) Any person, issued a permit, who violates or fails to continually conform to the criteria established for the
issuance of his permit, shall be considered to have violated an express condition of the permit and shall be deemed
to be in possession of the animal or bird without a permit. Permit violators shall be subject to prosecution for
possession of the animal or bird without a permit, and may be subject to the penalty prescribed by statute.

   (c) No person shall acquire additional game animals or game birds under any one permit without prior written
permission from the division. Progeny of permitted captive game animals or game birds are exempt from this
requirement provided the permittee can biologically substantiate the increase in numbers from permitted captive
game animals or game birds and reports the increase on the annual inventory report.

   (d) As a condition of any permit issued under this subchapter the division may require the permitted game
animal or game bird be quarantined for the period specified by the division.

   (e) Any permittee shall allow division personnel, at any reasonable time, to inspect the housing facilities of the
permitted species to determine compliance with the permit requirements and criteria.

   (f) Nothing in this subchapter relative to the possession of Game Animals and Game Birds is intended to
preempt any federal, state, or local requirement that is more stringent nor exempt any person from obtaining any
permit required by these governmental entities.

    (g) Game animals and birds possessed under these permits may be dispatched in a manner as directed by
N.J.S.A. 23:3-31 for legitimate purpose, including, but not limited to, the following:

    1. Euthanasia of sick, injured or surplus animals, in order to cull individuals to prevent overcrowding or spread
of disease; such euthanasia can also be ordered by the Commissioner when necessary to prevent spread of disease;

   2. To utilize as food, or to utilize the hide, skin, or other body parts; record-keeping and tagging requirements
must comply with those described in N.J.S.A. 23:3-28 to 39;

   3. Euthanasia by an agent of the Division or as ordered by the Commissioner;

  4. When an animal creates a danger or serious threat to persons or other animals as determined by the
Commissioner; or

   5. Euthanasia of research animals held under the scientific holding permit.

==== Captive game synopsis (captv_info.pdf) ====
                             STATE OF NEW JERSEY
                       Department of Environmental Protection
                            Division of Fish and Wildlife

                     CAPTIVE GAME INFORMATION SHEET
The following is a synopsis of wildlife captivity laws relating to game species. Please refer to
N.J.A.C. 7:25-10 for specific information. Additional information on the laws authorizing the
regulations concerning the possession of game animals, as well as semi-wild and commercial
shooting preserves, may be found in N.J.S.A. Title 23:3-28 to 39.

PERMIT CATEGORIES
Categories of permits include animal exhibitor, animal theatrical, cooperator, fur farming,
individual hobby, propagation and sales, and zoological. Indicate the most appropriate permit
category on your application based upon the primary purpose for possessing the game species. If
you have different species for different purposes, you may require more than one permit. For
example, if you wish to rehabilitate wildlife (cooperator/rehabilitation category) and maintain
other individual wildlife education purposes, more than one permit is necessary. Applicants must
be able to meet the necessary criteria for each category in which they apply for. If you have
questions, please call the Captive Game Permit section at 908-735-7040.

LEGALLY ACQUIRED GAME BIRDS OR ANIMALS
Legally acquired wild animals are for the most part, wild animals which are not from wild origin.
These animals are the offspring of animals that were legally held in captivity.
It is important to remember the intent of regulations dealing with wildlife captivity are:
     • To protect wildlife from exploitation. For example, taking animals from the wild for pets,
        or to sell.
     • To protect native wildlife populations from disease or competition. For example to
        prevent diseased captive animals from escaping and introducing diseases to wild
        populations; or to prevent exotic captive wildlife from escaping, introducing diseases into
        the wild populations and/or preying upon or out competing native wildlife.
     • To protect people from being injured by captive wildlife. For example, preventing wolves
        and other carnivores from mauling children.
     • To protect agricultural crops from damage from escaped exotic wildlife. For example,
        escaped wild boars destroy agricultural crops and also prey on ground nesting bird eggs.

Therefore, animals of wild origin are considered to be "legally acquired" only within strictly
controlled guidelines. States generally restrict the possession of animals that originated in the
wild, to the zoological and scientific holding categories. The educational and scientific
knowledge gained justifies allowing an occasional taking of an animal of wild origin. Wildlife
rehabilitators (cooperators) may temporarily possess native animals of wild origin, with the
intention of returning that animal to the wild.
MAMMALS
Captive game mammals obtained for the purpose of wholesale, transport, research and exhibition
require a NJ captive game permit and a permit from USDA-APHIS-Animal Care. The only
exceptions are those animals held for the purpose of food and/or fiber. All NJ permit applicants
are required to contact the USDA office and review their file with USDA-APHIS Animal Care.
Applications and information can be obtained by contacting the USDA-APHIS, Animal Care
office in Raleigh, North Carolina at (919) 855-7100. A copy of your USDA-APHIS permit must
be submitted with your NJ Captive Game annual report and renewal form.

POTENTIALY DANGEROUS SPECIES
The Division does not currently issue new permits for the possession of potentially dangerous
species within the hobby permit category. Authority for this decision is found in N.J.A.C. 7:25-
10.10(b) & 7:25-10.11. Potentially dangerous wildlife are unsuitable and inappropriate species
for hobbyists.

Persons in the hobby category, who were issued permits several years ago and still currently hold
potentially dangerous game animals, will be allowed to keep these animals. However, no
additional acquisitions will be allowed.

The possession of potentially dangerous species (non-domestic dogs, bears, non-domestic cats
and deer) will be allowed only within the scientific holding, propagation and sales, zoological,
animal exhibitor, animal theatrical and fur farming categories. Wildlife rehabilitators must have
special permission from the Division to rehabilitate potentially dangerous species.

The applicant must demonstrate knowledge and expertise in handling and caring for the
potentially dangerous species; be able to provide adequate caging for the species which will also
protect the public; and must clearly state in writing the purpose and intent for possessing the
species. Based upon the above criteria, the Division may approve the applicant's request.

TRANSFERS, ACQUISITIONS AND SALES (also see import/export)
No sales (or permanent transfers of ownership) of potentially dangerous species are allowed
within this state unless the buyer presents written approval from this Division to the seller.
Division approval will be granted only after successful review of the potential buyer's application
and successful inspection of facilities.

Holders of all categories of permits are reminded that they must notify the Division within 48
hours when the temporary transfer (e.g., temporary placement in another location NJAC 7:25-
10.13) of any game bird or animal takes place. For example, if someone will be caring for your
pet skunk in their home while you are on vacation, you must notify the Division of this
temporary transfer. In the case of potentially dangerous species, prior written approval from the
Division for the transfer is required.

All permit categories, except hobby, may acquire additional quantities of the potentially
dangerous species listed on their permit provided expansion of facilities is not required. Prior
approval for additional acquisitions is necessary if your facilities must be expanded or upgraded
(see also section on importation). For example, if you have a propagation and sales permit for
deer and wish to acquire more deer, you do not need Division permission unless you need to
increase your pen size. However, if you intend to buy wildlife from other states, you must have a
DFW importation permit and corresponding health documents for this purchase.

All permit holders acquiring species not classified as potentially dangerous, but are not listed on
their current permit, must report the acquisition within twenty days. For example, if you have a
permit for a skunk and then purchase a squirrel during the year, you must report the purchase of
the squirrel to the Division within twenty days.

The buyer must provide a receipt or letter of transfer and provide documentation to demonstrate
that he/she meets the requirements to adequately care for the species in question before a
permanent permit will be granted. Details such as species specific diet and photographs and
diagrams of the caging must also be included.

The receipts provided by holders of propagation and sales permits act as a temporary permit for
game species not listed in the potentially dangerous category. Captive Game receipt books are
available for $3.50 per book (25 receipts per book). Homemade receipts (or letters of transfers)
can be used by other permit category holders. This documentation must indicate: the name,
address, telephone number and permit number of the seller; the quantity and species of animals
involved; the name, address, telephone number of the purchaser; and date of sale or transfer. This
includes any change in ownership that does not involve a monetary transaction. These transfers
of ownership must be reported on the annual report. The bottom line is that the seller should not
sell animals to persons who are not likely to meet the criteria necessary to obtain a permit -
unless they have a return policy.

The sale of meat, hide, feathers and/or body parts of game animals raised under the propagation
and sales permit category is allowed provided that the meat and/or part is tagged and copies of a
receipt or record of transfer is possessed by both the buyer and seller. Tags are available from the
Division at a cost of $0.15 per tag.

IMPORTATION OF WILDLIFE
Anyone seeking to import wildlife into New Jersey must first obtain an importation permit,
which is available from the Division at no cost. Applicants must be able to prove that the
animal(s) do not originate from the wild (by providing valid receipt with supplier information);
the animal(s) are in good health (by providing a Certificate of Veterinary Inspection not more
than 30 days old) and have not been exposed to any infectious diseases which may affect
wildlife, domestic animals or people (include a copy of all required animal health test results).
Importation of wildlife without this permit and supporting documents is a violation of state, and
in some cases, federal law.

CURRENT IMPORTATION RESTRICTIONS
Attempts to address concerns regarding public health, wildlife disease outbreaks and disease
transmittal often require intrastate or interstate transportation restrictions. Depending on the
concern, these restrictions may last for just a few months as the concern subsides or the
restriction may last indefinitely. Always contact the Division for up to date information and
restrictions.

Persons violating the importation laws are subject to stiff fines, suspension or loss of the
captivity permit and may also incur costs associated with any necessary quarantine, civil liability
for damage to others, and loss of the animal(s) imported illegally.

Rabies Vector Species (RVS) include raccoons, skunks, woodchucks, fox and bats. The 2010
CDC surveillance report identifies 5 variants of the rabies virus including raccoon, skunk, fox,
bat, and mongoose. All the eastern coastal states as well as several neighboring states are
endemic to the raccoon variant. NJ has placed a ban on the importation of any RVS from any
state reported as having a variant of rabies other than the raccoon variant. For example, the skunk
variant is found in Texas. Therefore, no one can import a RVS from Texas, even if the RVS
originates from a captive breeder. The only exception will be for those animals held under the
supervision of a licensed veterinarian for zoological purposes.

Deer/Elk and other members of the Cervidae family: A ban on importing deer has been put
into effect due to the growing concern over the spread of chronic wasting disease in wild and
farmed herds of animals in the deer family throughout the United States. This ban will reduce the
risk of chronic wasting disease entering our State and help to prevent our wild deer from being
exposed to this deadly disease. The ban will remain in effect until further notice.

EXPORTATION
Anyone exporting wildlife to another state or country is advised to check with the wildlife
agency in the receiving state or country. Generally, the laws are similar to NJ in that the spread
of disease and the transfer of dangerous wildlife are of concern. Specific information regarding
what species and diseases are of concern may vary between states and/or countries and each
state/country may require different documentation reflecting animal health and/or test results
prior to transport.

Each year the DFW receives calls from other states seeking to verify transfers of wildlife alleged
to be from New Jersey. When you export wildlife, make sure your receipt and/or bills of landing
contain your contact information, New Jersey permit number, the species and the number of
individuals being transported. All in-state and all out-of-state sales or transfers must be reported
on your annual report forms.

WILDLIFE REHABILITATION

In general, legally acquired wildlife is not of wild origin. The exception that allows for the
holding of wild origin wildlife involves wildlife rehabilitation. States recognize that their citizens
wish to help sick, injured and orphaned native wildlife. In order to safeguard people and the
animals, only persons who can demonstrate their ability to care for these animals to a point
where they can be re-released back into the "wild" are given rehabilitator permits. In New Jersey,
a one (1) year apprenticeship under a licensed rehabilitator and a facility inspection are just two
of the prerequisites for obtaining a license to rehabilitate wildlife.
Animals not able to be released back into the wild must be euthanized. Occasionally, animals
that cannot be returned to the wild because of physical or behavioral problems are placed in the
permanent care of a permit holder in the scientific or zoological category, if there is an
educational need for such animals. Confiscated animals are likewise placed in scientific or
educational facilities when possible.

EMERGENCY POSSESSION OF WILDLIFE
Because your neighbors may know you have a permit for wildlife, you may be contacted when
an injured or orphaned wild animal is found. We understand that you may opt to take this animal
from the person and offer it emergency care. Captive Game permit holders, except wildlife
rehabilitators, must notify the Division within 12 hours (N.J.A.C. 7:25-10.9) when they are
offered or receive an animal from wild origin under emergency circumstances. Note that the
DFW must approve the transition prior to accepting a potentially dangerous species. Species of
wild origin will be directed to licensed rehabilitators. An attempt will be made to place non-
releasable wildlife in scientific or educational facilities. The Division is the final arbiter in
deciding the placement of wildlife that cannot be returned to the wild.

==== Policy on the importation of captive rabies vector species ====
                                   State of New Jersey
                              Department of Environmental Protection
                                        Mail Code 501-03
                                   Division of Fish and Wildlife
                                  501 E. State St. / PO Box 420
                                     Trenton, NJ 08625-0420

                    POLICY ON THE IMPORTATION OF
                    CAPTIVE RABIES VECTOR SPECIES
BACKGROUND

Under the authority of N.J.S.A. 23:4-63.3, N.J.S.A. 23:4-63.4, N.J.A.C 7:25 subchapters 4 and
10, the Division of Fish and Wildlife has the responsibility of regulating the possession of wild
mammals, birds, reptiles and amphibians and ensure that associated human activities do not
negatively affect the health and/or safety of the citizens of New Jersey.

Rabies is a deadly viral disease capable of infecting all mammals including domestic pets,
livestock and wildlife species. While all mammals are potentially vulnerable to rabies, raccoons,
skunks, fox, woodchucks and bats are vector wildlife species, and as such, rabies virus variants
are adapted to efficient transfer within the adapted species. The mid-Atlantic region of the
United States is endemic to the raccoon variant and NJ became exposed when an animal was
imported to the area from the southeast region.

The need to create this policy is the direct result of animal health, public health and safety
concerns, the need to protect native wildlife, and the dangers associated with the possession and
interstate transportation of these captive rabies vector species (RVS). Concerns regarding the
relocation and release of NJ’s wild rabies vector species are addressed in the Division of Fish and
Wildlife’s Policy on the Relocation of Wildlife.

CERTIFICATE OF VETERINARY INSPECTION (CVI)

Regulations N.J.A.C. 7:25-4.7 and 7:25-10.8 outline the criteria for permits to possess wildlife.
Criteria for possession include demonstration that the animal is free of infectious diseases and
parasites, which may be dangerous to the animals or people of the State.

EXCEPTIONS

Exceptions include facilities with wildlife held for zoological purposes as these facilities
incorporate advanced animal health provisions and are subject to additional regulatory oversight
by the American Zoological Association.

SPECIFIC GUIDELINES
Because the NJ DFW cannot regulate the practices of another state, the NJ DFW is immediately
placing a ban on the importation of raccoons, skunks, fox, woodchucks and bats, into the State of
New Jersey from any state that is endemic to a variant of rabies other than raccoon variant. The
only exception will be RVS held under supervision of a licensed veterinarian for zoological
purposes.

The Division will refer to the Center for Disease Control’s surveillance of rabies and/or other
information noting the current location of rabies in the United States.

This ban has been placed in effect in response to the growing concern over human and animal
exposure to the deadly viral disease rabies. Placing this ban on the importation of Rabies Vector
Species (RVS) will reduce the risk of rabies entering our state and help prevent exposure to this
deadly disease.

This ban will remain in effect until this ban is rescinded.

Approved 6/17/2009
Revised 11/30/2011
