SOURCE: N.J.A.C. 7:25-4.8(a) Potentially dangerous species, restricted and endangered species notice
URL: https://dep.nj.gov/wp-content/uploads/njfw/restricted-species-potentially-dangerous-species-and-endangered-species.pdf
FETCHED: 2026-09-05 (NJDEP Fish and Wildlife restricted species notice, extracted with pypdf. Carries the corn snake morph list and the axolotl bar, neither of which appears in the rule text.)

N.J.A.C. 7:25-4.8 Potentially dangerous species
(a) “Potentially dangerous species” is defined as any exotic mammal, birds, reptiles or amphibians, or
nongame species which, in the opinion of the Division, is capable of inflicting serious or fatal injuries or which
has the potential to become an agricultural pest, or a menace to the public health, or indigenous wildlife
populations, including, but not limited to the following:
CLASS/ORDER FAMILY
Primates Cebidae – New World Monkeys
Cercophithecidae – Old World Monkeys, Baboons
Pongidae – Apes
Carnivora Canidae – Nondomestic dogs
Ursidae – Bears
Felidae – Nondomestic cats
Saura (Venomous) Helodermidatidae – Gila monsters
Serpentes (Venomous) Elapidae – Coral snakes and cobras
Viperidae – Vipers
Crotalidae – Pit vipers
Crocodilia Alligatoridae – Alligators and caiman
Crocodylidae – crocodiles
Gavialidae – Gavials
Psittaciformes Psittaculis spp. – Ring-necked parakeets
Myiopsitta spp. – Monk (Quaker) parakeets)
Cyanoliseus patagonus – Patagonian conures
Rodentia Cynomys spp. – Prairie dogs
Spermophilus spp. – Ground squirrels
NOTE: Potentially Dangerous Species and Endangered Species may not be kept as pets or for hobby purposes
for any reason. NJ Fish & Wildlife classifies any animal as endangered when it is listed on any relevant State or
Federal endangered species list, including but not limited to the US Fish and Wildlife Service Endangered
Species List, IUCN Red List, and the New Jersey Endangered Species List.
Wild phase corn snakes are classified as endangered in the State of New Jersey and may not be possessed as
pets or for hobby purposes, nor may they be sold, for any reason. The only corn snake color morphs that are
legal to possess as pets and/or sold in New Jersey include the following: red albino (amelanistic), butter,
blizzard, candy cane, creamsicle, lavender, pearl, snow, and sun glow.
Due to the difficulties in determining morphological differences among several species, the following may not
be kept as pets or for hobby purposes, nor may they be sold in New Jersey: grey tree frogs (all species), larval
salamanders, water dogs, dino dogs, mud puppies, axolotls.
It is illegal to take any animal from the wild. If you see a sick, injured, or possibly orphaned wild animal, please
contact a Wildlife Rehabilitator. A list of rehabilitators can be found here.
The Center for Disease Control (CDC) has issued a warning restricting the possession and sales of including but
not limited to the following species: dormice, Gambian giant pouched rats, pygmy mice, spiny mice, and zebra
mice. Also note: due to the possibility of Monkey Pox, a health warning restriction has been announced for the
following species: prairie dog; and six types of African rodents: tree squirrels, rope squirrels, dormice, Gambian
giant pouched rats, brush-tailed porcupines, and striped mice are not allowed to be possessed or sold for any
reason.
NOTE: Potentially Dangerous Species and Endangered Species may only be possessed by those who have the
legal qualifications to care for these animals and are limited to Zoological Holding, Scientific Holding, and
Animal Exhibitor permit holders.
For any questions, please call (609)292-9591 or email NJWildlifePermits@dep.nj.gov.