SOURCE: N.J.S.A. 23:4-63.3, Possession, release of certain animals, prohibited; terms defined
URL: https://law.onecle.com/new-jersey/title-23/23-4-63.3.html
FETCHED: 2026-09-05 (New Jersey publishes its statutes through a Folio viewer with no plain document URL, so this section was read from a reproduction and is cited to the official section. Site chrome stripped.)

23:4-63.3. Possession, release of certain animals, prohibited; terms defined
 1. a. No person may possess any live indigenous animal, live exotic animal, live potentially dangerous indigenous animal, or live potentially dangerous exotic animal except as authorized pursuant to a permit issued by the Department of Environmental Protection or as may be authorized otherwise by the Fish and Game Council pursuant to rules and regulations adopted pursuant to the "Administrative Procedure Act," P.L.1968, c.410 (C.52:14B-1 et seq.).
 b.No person may release any live indigenous animal into the environment of the State except as authorized pursuant to a permit issued by the department or as may be authorized otherwise by the council pursuant to rules and regulations adopted pursuant to the "Administrative Procedure Act."
 c.No person may release any live exotic animal into the environment of the State except as authorized pursuant to a permit issued by the department or as may be authorized otherwise by the council pursuant to rules and regulations adopted pursuant to the "Administrative Procedure Act."
 d.No person may release any live potentially dangerous indigenous animal into the environment of the State except as authorized pursuant to a permit issued by the department or as may be authorized otherwise by the council pursuant to rules and regulations adopted pursuant to the "Administrative Procedure Act."
 e.No person may release any live potentially dangerous exotic animal into the environment of the State except as authorized pursuant to a permit issued by the department or as may be authorized otherwise by the council pursuant to rules and regulations adopted pursuant to the "Administrative Procedure Act."
 f.Every pet shop licensed in the State pursuant to section 8 of P.L.1941, c.151 (C.4:19-15.8) shall post in a conspicuous place in the pet shop a notice about the existence of this act and a copy of its provisions.
 g.The department may attach such conditions to any permit issued or other authorization granted pursuant to this section as the department deems appropriate and necessary for the purpose of protecting indigenous animals or plants, the environment, agriculture, or the public health, safety, or welfare.
 h. (1) The council shall adopt, pursuant to the "Administrative Procedure Act," such rules and regulations to supplement the State Fish and Game Code as may be necessary to implement this section.
 (2)The council, by rule or regulation adopted pursuant to the "Administrative Procedure Act," may exempt from the requirements and provisions of this section any species of indigenous animal, exotic animal, potentially dangerous indigenous animal, or potentially dangerous exotic animal, provided that the possession or release of such animals would not pose a significant threat to indigenous animals or plants, the environment, agriculture, or the public health, safety, or welfare.
 (3)This section shall not apply to any activities of the Division of Fish and Wildlife concerning the possession and release of animals.
 i.The requirements and provisions of this section, or any permit issued or rule or regulation adopted pursuant thereto, shall be in addition to those concerning the possession or release of live indigenous animals, live exotic animals, live potentially dangerous indigenous animals, or live potentially dangerous exotic animals, as may be established by any other law or any permit issued or rule or regulation adopted pursuant thereto, including but not limited to "The Endangered and Nongame Species Conservation Act," P.L.1973, c.309 (C.23:2A-1 et seq.), R.S.23:4-50, R.S.23:4-52, and the State Fish and Game Code.
 j.For the purposes of this section:
 "Council" means the Fish and Game Council;
 "Department" means the Department of Environmental Protection;
 "Exotic animal" means any species of mammal, bird, reptile, amphibian, fish, mollusk, or crustacean that is not indigenous to New Jersey as determined by the Fish and Game Council in rules and regulations adopted pursuant to the "Administrative Procedure Act," and shall include the young or eggs of any such species, but shall not include (1) domesticated companion animals or farm livestock as defined by the Fish and Game Council, or (2) fish, shellfish, or game species not indigenous to New Jersey for which fishing, harvesting, hunting, or trapping is authorized and regulated pursuant to law, the State Fish and Game Code, or rules and regulations of the Fish and Game Council;
 "Indigenous animal" means any species of mammal, bird, reptile, amphibian, fish, mollusk, or crustacean that is indigenous to New Jersey as determined by the Fish and Game Council in rules and regulations adopted pursuant to the "Administrative Procedure Act," and shall include the young or eggs of any such species;
 "Potentially dangerous exotic animal" means any species of exotic animal that has been determined by the Fish and Game Council in rules and regulations adopted pursuant to the "Administrative Procedure Act," to: (1) be capable of inflicting serious or fatal injuries to humans, livestock, or pets; or (2) possess the potential for becoming a significant threat to indigenous animals or plants, the environment, agriculture, or the public health, safety, or welfare; and
 "Potentially dangerous indigenous animal" means any species of indigenous animal that has been determined by the Fish and Game Council in rules and regulations adopted pursuant to the "Administrative Procedure Act," to: (1) be capable of inflicting serious or fatal injuries to humans, livestock, or pets; or (2) possess the potential for becoming a significant threat to indigenous animals or plants, the environment, agriculture, or the public health, safety, or welfare.
 L.1962,c.127,s.1; amended 2002, c.122, s.2.
