SOURCE: Ohio Rev. Code § 1531.01 (definitions), § 935.01 (dangerous wild animals and restricted snakes), § 1533.71 (propagating licenses)
URL: https://codes.ohio.gov/ohio-revised-code/section-1531.01
FETCHED: 2026-09-05 (codes.ohio.gov works with plain curl, one section per page.)

==== 1531.01 ====
Section 1531.01 - Ohio Revised Code | Ohio Laws
Skip to main content
Back To Top
Top
The Legislative Service Commission staff updates the Revised Code on an ongoing basis, as it completes its act review of enacted legislation.
Updates may be slower during some times of the year, depending on the volume of enacted legislation.
Section 1531.01 | Division of wildlife definitions.
Ohio Revised Code
/
Title 15 Conservation of Natural Resources
/
Chapter 1531 Division Of Wildlife
 
Effective:
September 30, 2025
Latest Legislation: 
House Bill 96 - 136th General Assembly
PDF:
Download Authenticated PDF
 
As used in this chapter and Chapter 1533. of the Revised Code: 
(A) "Person" means a person as defined in section 1.59 of the Revised Code or a company; an employee, agent, or officer of such a person or company; a combination of individuals; the state; a political subdivision of the state; an interstate body created by a compact; or the federal government or a department, agency, or instrumentality of it. 
(B) "Resident" means either of the following: 
(1) An individual who has resided in this state for not less than six months preceding the date of making application for a license or permit; 
(2) An individual who is a full-time student enrolled in an accredited Ohio public or private college or university and who resides in this state at the time the individual makes application for a license or permit and who attests to the individual's full-time student status in a manner determined by the chief of the division of wildlife. 
(C) "Nonresident" means any individual who does not qualify as a resident. 
(D) "Division rule" or "rule" means any rule adopted by the chief of the division of wildlife under section 1531.10 of the Revised Code unless the context indicates otherwise. 
(E) "Closed season" means that period of time during which the taking of wild animals protected by this chapter and Chapter 1533. of the Revised Code is prohibited. 
(F) "Open season" means that period of time during which the taking of wild animals protected by this chapter and Chapter 1533. of the Revised Code is permitted. 
(G) "Take or taking" includes pursuing, shooting, hunting, killing, trapping, angling, fishing with a trotline, or netting any clam, mussel, crayfish, aquatic insect, fish, frog, turtle, wild bird, or wild quadruped, and any lesser act, such as wounding, or placing, setting, drawing, or using any other device for killing or capturing any wild animal, whether it results in killing or capturing the animal or not. "Take or taking" includes every attempt to kill or capture and every act of assistance to any other person in killing or capturing or attempting to kill or capture a wild animal. 
(H) "Possession" means both actual and constructive possession and any control of things referred to. 
(I) "Bag limit" means the number, measurement, or weight of any kind of crayfish, aquatic insects, fish, frogs, turtles, wild birds, and wild quadrupeds permitted to be taken. 
(J) "Transport and transportation" means carrying or moving or causing to be carried or moved. 
(K) "Sell and sale" means barter, exchange, or offer or expose for sale. 
(L) "Whole to include part" means that every provision relating to any wild animal protected by this chapter and Chapter 1533. of the Revised Code applies to any part of the wild animal with the same effect as it applies to the whole. 
(M) "Angling" means fishing with not more than two hand lines, not more than two units of rod and line, or a combination of not more than one hand line and one rod and line, either in hand or under control at any time while fishing. The hand line or rod and line shall have attached to it not more than three baited hooks, not more than three artificial fly rod lures, or one artificial bait casting lure equipped with not more than three sets of three hooks each. 
(N) "Trotline" means a device for catching fish that consists of a line having suspended from it, at frequent intervals, vertical lines with hooks attached. 
(O) "Fish" means a cold-blooded vertebrate having fins. 
(P) "Measurement of fish" means length from the end of the nose to the longest tip or end of the tail. 
(Q) "Wild birds" includes game birds and nongame birds. 
(R) "Game" includes game birds, game quadrupeds, and fur-bearing animals. 
(S) "Game birds" includes mourning doves, ringneck pheasants, bobwhite quail, ruffed grouse, sharp-tailed grouse, pinnated grouse, wild turkey, Hungarian partridge, Chukar partridge, woodcocks, black-breasted plover, golden plover, Wilson's snipe or jacksnipe, greater and lesser yellowlegs, rail, coots, gallinules, duck, geese, brant, and crows. 
(T) "Nongame birds" includes all other wild birds not included and defined as game birds or migratory game birds. 
(U) "Wild quadrupeds" includes game quadrupeds, fur-bearing animals, and wild boar or feral swine. 
(V) "Game quadrupeds" includes cottontail rabbits, gray squirrels, black squirrels, fox squirrels, red squirrels, flying squirrels, chipmunks, groundhogs or woodchucks, white-tailed deer, elk, and black bears. 
(W) "Fur-bearing animals" includes minks, weasels, raccoons, skunks, opossums, muskrats, fox, beavers, badgers, otters, coyotes, and bobcats. 
(X) "Wild animals" includes mollusks, crustaceans, aquatic insects, fish, reptiles, amphibians, wild birds, wild quadrupeds, and all other wild mammals, but does not include domestic deer. 
(Y) "Hunting" means pursuing, shooting, killing, following after or on the trail of, lying in wait for, shooting at, or wounding wild birds or wild quadrupeds while employing any device commonly used to kill or wound wild birds or wild quadrupeds whether or not the acts result in killing or wounding. "Hunting" includes every attempt to kill or wound and every act of assistance to any other person in killing or wounding or attempting to kill or wound wild birds or wild quadrupeds. 
(Z) "Trapping" means securing or attempting to secure possession of a wild bird or wild quadruped by means of setting, placing, drawing, or using any device that is designed to close upon, hold fast, confine, or otherwise capture a wild bird or wild quadruped whether or not the means results in capture. "Trapping" includes every act of assistance to any other person in capturing wild birds or wild quadrupeds by means of the device whether or not the means results in capture. 
(AA) "Muskrat spear" means any device used in spearing muskrats. 
(BB) "Channels and passages" means those narrow bodies of water lying between islands or between an island and the mainland in Lake Erie. 
(CC) "Island" means a rock or land elevation above the waters of Lake Erie having an area of five or more acres above water. 
(DD) "Reef" means an elevation of rock, either broken or in place, or gravel shown by the latest United States chart to be above the common level of the surrounding bottom of the lake, other than the rock bottom, or in place forming the base or foundation rock of an island or mainland and sloping from the shore of it. "Reef" also means all elevations shown by that chart to be above the common level of the sloping base or foundation rock of an island or mainland, whether running from the shore of an island or parallel with the contour of the shore of an island or in any other way and whether formed by rock, broken or in place, or from gravel. 
(EE) "Fur farm" means any area used exclusively for raising fur-bearing animals or in addition thereto used for hunting game, the boundaries of which are plainly marked as such. 
(FF) "Waters" includes any lake, pond, reservoir, stream, channel, lagoon, or other body of water, or any part thereof, whether natural or artificial. 
(GG) "Crib" or "car" refers to that particular compartment of the net from which the fish are taken when the net is lifted. 
(HH) "Commercial fish" means those species of fish permitted to be taken, possessed, bought, or sold unless otherwise restricted by the Revised Code or division rule and are alewife (Alosa pseudoharengus), American eel (Anguilla rostrata), bowfin (Amia calva), burbot (Lota lota), carp (Cyprinus carpio), smallmouth buffalo (Ictiobus bubalus), bigmouth buffalo (Ictiobus cyprinellus), black bullhead (Ictalurus melas), yellow bullhead (Ictalurus natalis), brown bullhead (Ictalurus nebulosus), channel catfish (Ictalurus punctatus), flathead catfish (Pylodictis olivaris), whitefish (Coregonus sp.), cisco (Coregonus sp.), freshwater drum or sheepshead (Aplodinotus grunniens), gar (Lepisosteus sp.), gizzard shad (Dorosoma cepedianum), goldfish (Carassius auratus), lake trout (Salvelinus namaycush), mooneye (Hiodon tergisus), quillback (Carpiodes cyprinus), smelt (Allosmerus elongatus, Hypomesus sp., Osmerus sp., Spirinchus sp.), sturgeon (Acipenser sp., Scaphirhynchus sp.), sucker other than buffalo and quillback (Carpiodes sp., Catostomus sp., Hypentelium sp., Minytrema sp., Moxostoma sp.), white bass (Morone chrysops), white perch (Roccus americanus), and yellow perch (Perca flavescens). When the common name of a fish is used in this chapter or Chapter 1533. of the Revised Code, it refers to the fish designated by the scientific name in this definition. 
(II) "Fishing" means taking or attempting to take fish by any method, and all other acts such as placing, setting, drawing, or using any device commonly used to take fish whether resulting in a taking or not. 
(JJ) "Fillet" means the pieces of flesh taken or cut from both sides of a fish, joined to form one piece of flesh. 
(KK) "Part fillet" means a piece of flesh taken or cut from one side of a fish. 
(LL) "Round" when used in describing fish means with head and tail intact. 
(MM) "Migrate" means the transit or movement of fish to or from one place to another as a result of natural forces or instinct and includes, but is not limited to, movement of fish induced or caused by changes in the water flow. 
(NN) "Spreader bar" means a brail or rigid bar placed across the entire width of the back, at the top and bottom of the cars in all trap, crib, and fyke nets for the purpose of keeping the meshes hanging squarely while the nets are fishing. 
(OO) "Fishing guide" means any person who, for consideration or hire, operates a boat, rents, leases, or otherwise furnishes angling devices, ice fishing shanties or shelters of any kind, or other fishing equipment, and accompanies, guides, directs, or assists any other person in order for the other person to engage in fishing. 
(PP) "Net" means fishing devices with meshes composed of twine or synthetic material and includes, but is not limited to, trap nets, fyke nets, crib nets, carp aprons, dip nets, and seines, except minnow seines and minnow dip nets. 
(QQ) "Commercial fishing gear" means seines, trap nets, fyke nets, dip nets, carp aprons, trotlines, other similar gear, and any boat used in conjunction with that gear, but does not include gill nets. 
(RR) "Native wildlife" means any species of the animal kingdom indigenous to this state. 
(SS) "Gill net" means a single section of fabric or netting seamed to a float line at the top and a lead line at the bottom, which is designed to entangle fish in the net openings as they swim into it. 
(TT) "Tag fishing tournament" means a contest in which a participant pays a fee, or gives other valuable consideration, for a chance to win a prize by virtue of catching a tagged or otherwise specifically marked fish within a limited period of time. 
(UU) "Tenant" means an individual who resides on land for which the individual pays rent and whose annual income is primarily derived from agricultural production conducted on that land, as "agricultural production" is defined in section 929.01 of the Revised Code. 
(VV) "Nonnative wildlife" means any wild animal not indigenous to this state, but does not include domestic deer. 
(WW) "Reptiles" includes common musk turtle (sternotherus odoratus), common snapping turtle (Chelydra serpentina serpentina), spotted turtle (Clemmys guttata), eastern box turtle (Terrapene carolina carolina), Blanding's turtle (Emydoidea blandingii), common map turtle (Graptemys geographica), ouachita map turtle (Graptemys pseudogeographica ouachitensis), midland painted turtle (Chrysemys picta marginata), red-eared slider (Trachemys scripta elegans), eastern spiny softshell turtle (Apalone spinifera spinifera), midland smooth softshell turtle (Apalone mutica mutica), northern fence lizard (Sceloporus undulatus hyacinthinus), ground skink (Scincella lateralis), five-lined skink (Eumeces fasciatus), broadhead skink (Eumeces laticeps), northern coal skink (Eumeces anthracinus anthracinus), European wall lizard (Podarcis muralis), queen snake (Regina septemvittata), Kirtland's snake (Clonophis kirtlandii), northern water snake (Nerodia sipedon sipedon), Lake Erie watersnake (Nerodia sipedon insularum), copperbelly water snake (Nerodia erythrogaster neglecta), northern brown snake (Storeria dekayi dekayi), midland brown snake (Storeria dekayi wrightorum), northern redbelly snake (Storeria occipitomaculata occipitomaculata), eastern garter snake (Thamnophis sirtalis sirtalis), eastern plains garter snake (Thamnophis radix radix), Butler's garter snake (Thamnophis butleri), shorthead garter snake (Thamnophis brachystoma), eastern ribbon snake (Thamnophis sauritus sauritus), northern ribbon snake (Thamnophis sauritus septentrionalis), eastern hognose snake (Heterodon platirhinos), eastern smooth earth snake (Virginia valeriae valeriae), northern ringneck snake (Diadophis punctatus edwardsii), midwest worm snake (Carphophis amoenus helenae), eastern worm snake (Carphophis amoenus amoenus), black racer (Coluber constrictor constrictor), blue racer (Coluber constrictor foxii), rough green snake (opheodrys aestivus), smooth green snake (opheodrys vernalis vernalis), black rat snake (Elaphe obsoleta obsoleta), eastern fox snake (Elaphe vulpina gloydi), black kingsnake (Lampropeltis getula nigra), eastern milk snake (Lampropeltis triangulum triangulum), northern copperhead (Agkistrodon contortrix mokasen), eastern massasauga (Sistrurus catenatus catenatus), and timber rattlesnake (Crotalus horridus horridus). 
(XX) "Amphibians" includes eastern hellbender (Crytpobranchus alleganiensis alleganiensis), mudpuppy (Necturus maculosus maculosus), red-spotted newt (Notophthalmus viridescens viridescens), Jefferson salamander (Ambystoma jeffersonianum), spotted salamander (Ambystoma maculatum), blue-spotted salamander (Ambystoma laterale), smallmouth salamander (Ambystoma texanum), streamside salamander (Ambystoma barbouri), marbled salamander (Ambystoma opacum), eastern tiger salamander (Ambystoma tigrinum tigrinum), northern dusky salamander (Desmognathus fuscus fuscus), mountain dusky salamander (Desmognathus ochrophaeus), redback salamander (Plethodon cinereus), ravine salamander (Plethodon richmondi), northern slimy salamander (Plethodon glutinosus), Wehrle's salamander (Plethodon wehrlei), four-toed salamander (Hemidactylium scutatum), Kentucky spring salamander (Gyrinophilus porphyriticus duryi), northern spring salamander (Gyrinophilus porphyriticus porphyriticus), mud salamander (Pseudotriton montanus), northern red salamander (Pseudotriton ruber ruber), green salamander (Aneides aeneus), northern two-lined salamander (Eurycea bislineata), longtail salamander (Eurycea longicauda longicauda), cave salamander (Eurycea lucifuga), southern two-lined salamander (Eurycea cirrigera), Fowler's toad (Bufo woodhousii fowleri), American toad (Bufo americanus), eastern spadefoot (Scaphiopus holbrookii), Blanchard's cricket frog (Acris crepitans blanchardi), northern spring peeper (Pseudacris crucifer crucifer), gray treefrog (Hyla versicolor), Cope's gray treefrog (Hyla chrysoscelis), western chorus frog (Pseudacris triseriata triseriata), mountain chorus frog (Pseudacris brachyphona), bullfrog (Rana catesbeiana), green frog (Rana clamitans melanota), northern leopard frog (Rana pipiens), pickerel frog (Rana palustris), southern leopard frog (Rana utricularia), and wood frog (Rana sylvatica). 
(YY) "Deer" means white-tailed deer (Oddocoileus virginianus). 
(ZZ) "Domestic deer" means nonnative deer that have been legally acquired or their offspring and that are held in private ownership for primarily agricultural purposes. 
(AAA) "Migratory game bird" includes waterfowl (Anatidae); doves (Columbidae); cranes (Gruidae); cormorants (Phalacrocoracidea); rails, coots, and gallinules (Rallidae); and woodcock and snipe (Scolopacidae). 
(BBB) "Accompany" means to go along with another person while staying within a distance from the person that enables uninterrupted, unaided visual and auditory communication. 
(CCC) "All-purpose vehicle" means any vehicle that is designed primarily for cross-country travel on land, water, or land and water and that is steered by wheels, caterpillar treads, or a combination of wheels and caterpillar treads and includes vehicles that operate on a cushion of air, vehicles commonly known as all-terrain vehicles, all-season vehicles, mini-bikes, and trail bikes. 
(DDD) "Wholly enclosed preserve" means an area of land that is surrounded by a fence that is at least six feet in height, unless otherwise specified in division rule, and is constructed of a woven wire mesh, or another enclosure that the division of wildlife may approve, where game birds, game quadrupeds, reptiles, amphibians, or fur-bearing animals are raised and may be sold under the authority of a commercial propagating license or captive white-tailed deer propagation license obtained under section 1533.71 of the Revised Code. 
(EEE) "Commercial bird shooting preserve" means an area of land where game birds are released and hunted by shooting as authorized by a commercial bird shooting preserve license obtained under section 1533.72 of the Revised Code. 
(FFF) "Wild animal hunting preserve" means an area of land where game, captive white-tailed deer, and nonnative wildlife, other than game birds, are released and hunted as authorized by a wild animal hunting preserve license obtained under section 1533.721 of the Revised Code. 
(GGG) "Captive white-tailed deer" means legally acquired deer that are held in private ownership at a facility licensed under section 943.03 or 943.031 of the Revised Code and under section 1533.71 or 1533.721 of the Revised Code.
(HHH) "Wild boar" or "feral swine" means a hog, boar, or pig that appears to be untamed, undomesticated, or in a wild state. "Wild boar" or "feral swine" includes both of the following:
(1) Except for Sus scrofa domesticus that is legally confined or held in captivity, members of the family suidae, including all of the following:
(a) Wild pig, wild hog, feral hog, and feral pig;
(b) Old world swine, razorbacks, European wild boar, and Russian wild boar, and any hybrids or crossbreeds thereof;
(c) Wild pig, wild hog, feral hog, or feral pig that appear contained in a wild animal hunting preserve licensed under section 1533.721 of the Revised Code or a wholly enclosed preserve for hunting or trapping.
(2) Members of the family tayassuidae, including collared peccary and javelina, and any hybrids or crossbreeds of members of the family tayassuidae.
Last updated August 1, 2025 at 3:47 PM
Available Versions of this Section
June 29, 2012 – House Bill 389 - 129th General Assembly
[ View June 29, 2012 Version ]
September 29, 2017 – Amended by House Bill 49 - 132nd General Assembly
[ View September 29, 2017 Version ]
September 28, 2018 – Amended by Senate Bill 257 - 132nd General Assembly
[ View September 28, 2018 Version ]
September 30, 2021 – Amended by House Bill 110 - 134th General Assembly
[ View September 30, 2021 Version ]
October 3, 2023 – Amended by House Bill 33 - 135th General Assembly
[ View October 3, 2023 Version ]
March 20, 2025 – Amended by House Bill 503 - 135th General Assembly
[ View March 20, 2025 Version ]
September 30, 2025 – Amended by House Bill 96 - 136th General Assembly
[ View September 30, 2025 Version ]
 

==== 935.01 ====
Section 935.01 - Ohio Revised Code | Ohio Laws
Skip to main content
Back To Top
Top
The Legislative Service Commission staff updates the Revised Code on an ongoing basis, as it completes its act review of enacted legislation.
Updates may be slower during some times of the year, depending on the volume of enacted legislation.
Section 935.01 | Definitions.
Ohio Revised Code
/
Title 9 Agriculture-Animals-Fences
/
Chapter 935 Possession Of Wild Animals And Snakes
 
Effective:
September 5, 2012
Latest Legislation: 
Senate Bill 310 - 129th General Assembly
PDF:
Download Authenticated PDF
 
As used in this chapter: 
(A) "Board of health" means the board of health of a city or general health district or the authority having the duties of a board of health in any city authorized by section 3709.05 of the Revised Code.
(B) "Circus" means a traveling show to which all of the following apply:
(1) It is licensed by the United States department of agriculture under the federal animal welfare act.
(2) It presents dangerous wild animals, restricted snakes, or both in a public performance as its own event or as part of a fair or carnival.
(3) It does not allow physical contact between the public and the dangerous wild animals or restricted snakes possessed by it. Division (B)(3) of this section does not apply to rides or other interactions between the public and an elephant, provided that such a ride or other interaction is under the direct supervision of an experienced animal handler.
(4) It is in the state for less than sixty-five days each year.
(C) "Dangerous wild animal" means any of the following, including hybrids unless otherwise specified:
(1) Hyenas;
(2) Gray wolves, excluding hybrids;
(3) Lions;
(4) Tigers;
(5) Jaguars;
(6) Leopards, including clouded leopards, Sunda clouded leopards, and snow leopards;
(7) All of the following, including hybrids with domestic cats unless otherwise specified:
(a) Cheetahs;
(b) Lynxes, including Canadian lynxes, Eurasian lynxes, and Iberian lynxes;
(c) Cougars, also known as pumas or mountain lions;
(d) Caracals;
(e) Servals, excluding hybrids with domestic cats commonly known as savannah cats.
(8) Bears;
(9) Elephants;
(10) Rhinoceroses;
(11) Hippopotamuses;
(12) Cape buffaloes;
(13) African wild dogs;
(14) Komodo dragons;
(15) Alligators;
(16) Crocodiles;
(17) Caimans, excluding dwarf caimans;
(18) Gharials;
(19) Nonhuman primates other than lemurs and the nonhuman primates specified in division (C)(20) of this section;
(20) All of the following nonhuman primates:
(a) Golden lion, black-faced lion, golden-rumped lion, cotton-top, emperor, saddlebacked, black-mantled, and Geoffroy's tamarins;
(b) Southern and northern night monkeys;
(c) Dusky titi and masked titi monkeys;
(d) Muriquis;
(e) Goeldi's monkeys;
(f) White-faced, black-bearded, white-nose bearded, and monk sakis;
(g) Bald and black uakaris;
(h) Black-handed, white-bellied, brown-headed, and black spider monkeys;
(i) Common woolly monkeys;
(j) Red, black, and mantled howler monkeys.
"Dangerous wild animal" does not include a domesticated animal that is considered livestock as defined in section 901.70 of the Revised Code.
(D) "Federal animal welfare act" has the same meaning as in section 959.131 of the Revised Code.
(E) "Felony drug abuse offense" has the same meaning as in section 2925.01 of the Revised Code.
(F) "Health district" means a city or general health district created by or under the authority of Chapter 3709. of the Revised Code.
(G) "Humane society" means an organization that is organized under section 1717.05 of the Revised Code.
(H) "Law enforcement officer" means a sheriff, deputy sheriff, constable, police officer of a township or joint police district, marshal, deputy marshal, municipal police officer, or state highway patrol trooper.
(I) "Natural resources law enforcement officers" means peace officers as specified in division (A)(6) of section 109.71 of the Revised Code and employees of the division of wildlife specified in sections 1531.13 and 1531.14 of the Revised Code.
(J) "Offense of violence" has the same meaning as in section 2901.01 of the Revised Code.
(K) "Rescue facility" means a nonprofit organization as described in section 170 of the "Internal Revenue Code of 1986," 100 Stat. 2085, 26 U.S.C. 170, as amended, that operates a place of refuge where abused, neglected, unwanted, impounded, abandoned, orphaned, or displaced dangerous wild animals are provided care for their lifetime or released back to their natural habitat, and, with respect to an animal possessed by the organization, that does not do any of the following:
(1) Sell, trade, or barter the animal or the animal's body parts;
(2) Use the animal in any manner for profit;
(3) Breed the animal;
(4) Allow the public the opportunity to come into contact with the animal.
(L) "Restricted snake" means any of the following:
(1) All of the following constricting snakes that are twelve feet or longer:
(a) Green anacondas;
(b) Yellow anacondas;
(c) Reticulated pythons;
(d) Indian pythons;
(e) Burmese pythons;
(f) North African rock pythons;
(g) South African rock pythons;
(h) Amethystine pythons.
(2) Species of the following families:
(a) Atractaspididae;
(b) Elapidae;
(c) Viperidae.
(3) Boomslang snakes;
(4) Twig snakes.
(M) "Rule" means a rule adopted under section 935.17 of the Revised Code.
(N) "Veterinarian" means a person who is licensed under Chapter 4741. of the Revised Code.
(O) "Wildlife sanctuary" means a nonprofit organization as described in section 170 of the "Internal Revenue Code of 1986," 100 Stat. 2085, 26 U.S.C. 170, as amended, that is accredited or verified by the global federation of animal sanctuaries, that operates a place of refuge where abused, neglected, unwanted, impounded, abandoned, orphaned, or displaced dangerous wild animals or restricted snakes are provided care for their lifetime or released back to their natural habitat, and, with respect to an animal or snake possessed by the organization, that does not do any of the following:
(1) Use or allow the use of the animal or snake for any type of entertainment or in a traveling exhibit;
(2) Sell, trade, lease, loan, or barter the animal or snake or the animal's or snake's body parts;
(3) Use or allow the use of the animal or snake in any manner for profit;
(4) Breed the animal or snake;
(5) Allow the public the opportunity to come into physical contact with the animal or snake.
Available Versions of this Section
September 5, 2012 – Senate Bill 310 - 129th General Assembly
[ View September 5, 2012 Version ]
 

==== 1533.71 ====
Section 1533.71 - Ohio Revised Code | Ohio Laws
Skip to main content
Back To Top
Top
The Legislative Service Commission staff updates the Revised Code on an ongoing basis, as it completes its act review of enacted legislation.
Updates may be slower during some times of the year, depending on the volume of enacted legislation.
Section 1533.71 | License to raise or keep game birds and animals.
Ohio Revised Code
/
Title 15 Conservation of Natural Resources
/
Chapter 1533 Hunting; Fishing
 
Effective:
June 29, 2012
Latest Legislation: 
House Bill 389, Senate Bill 310 - 129th General Assembly
PDF:
Download Authenticated PDF
 
(A) Unless otherwise provided in this section or by division rule, any person desiring to engage in the business of raising and selling game birds, game quadrupeds, reptiles, amphibians, or fur-bearing animals in a wholly enclosed preserve of which the person is the owner or lessee, or to have game birds, game quadrupeds, reptiles, amphibians, or fur-bearing animals in captivity, shall submit an application to the division of wildlife for a license to do so. This section does not apply to a person who possesses wild animals under the authority of a license for a wild animal hunting preserve or a commercial bird shooting preserve. 
The division, when it appears that the application is made in good faith and the applicant is in compliance with division (B) of this section, if applicable, and upon the payment of the fee for each license, may issue to the applicant any of the following licenses that may be applied for:
(1) "Commercial propagating license" permitting the licensee to propagate game birds, game quadrupeds except captive white-tailed deer, reptiles, amphibians, or fur-bearing animals in the wholly enclosed preserve the location of which is stated in the license and the application therefor, and to sell the propagated game birds, game quadrupeds except captive white-tailed deer, reptiles, amphibians, or fur-bearing animals and ship them from the state alive at any time, and permitting the licensee and the licensee's employees to kill the propagated game birds, game quadrupeds except captive white-tailed deer, or fur-bearing animals and sell the carcasses for food subject to sections 1533.71 to 1533.79 of the Revised Code. The fee for such a license is forty dollars per annum.
(2) "Noncommercial propagating license" permitting the licensee to propagate game birds, game quadrupeds except captive white-tailed deer, reptiles, amphibians, or fur-bearing animals and to hold the animals in captivity. Game birds, game quadrupeds except captive white-tailed deer, reptiles, amphibians, and fur-bearing animals propagated or held in captivity by authority of a noncommercial propagating license are for the licensee's own use and shall not be sold. The fee for such a license is twenty-five dollars per annum.
(3) "Captive white-tailed deer propagation license" permitting the licensee to propagate captive white-tailed deer, hold the animals in captivity, and sell the animals and carcasses. The fee for such a license is forty dollars. The license is valid until a licensee ceases to hold captive white-tailed deer or the license is revoked, whichever occurs earlier.
(B)(1) A person who wishes to obtain a captive white-tailed deer propagation license, prior to applying for the license, shall construct an authorized enclosure that is surrounded by a fence that is eight feet in height with a minimal deviation not to exceed four per cent, is constructed in a manner that prevents ingress and egress of deer, and is constructed of materials that are approved by the chief of the division of wildlife in consultation with the animal and plant health inspection service in the United States department of agriculture, the department of agriculture, and representatives of the cervid industry in this state.
(2) After constructing an authorized enclosure in accordance with division (B)(1) of this section and division rules, the person may submit an application for a captive white-tailed deer propagation license.
(3) Not later than thirty days after the submission of the application, a representative from the division shall inspect the authorized enclosure to ensure compliance with division (B)(1) of this section and division rules. If the applicant's authorized enclosure is not in compliance with all of the applicable requirements, the representative shall inform the applicant in writing of the deficiencies not later than ten business days after the inspection. If the applicant corrects the deficiencies, the applicant shall request a reinspection. The reinspection shall be conducted in accordance with this division not later than thirty days after the request for reinspection.
If the applicant's authorized enclosure complies with all of the applicable requirements, the chief shall review the application and shall issue or deny the license. If the chief denies the license, the chief shall return the application to the applicant with an explanation of the reasons for denial. The applicant may correct the deficiencies in the application and submit a revised application. If the applicant corrects the deficiencies, the chief shall issue the license as provided in this section.
(4) Upon receipt of a captive white-tailed deer propagation license, receipt of a license under section 943.03 or 943.031 of the Revised Code, and a demonstration to the chief or the chief's designee that each captive white-tailed deer held by the licensee was legally acquired, the licensee may place all of the licensee's deer in the authorized enclosure. The licensee thereafter shall comply with this chapter and Chapter 1531. of the Revised Code, division rules, sections 943.20 to 943.26 of the Revised Code, and rules adopted under section 943.24 of the Revised Code.
(C) The division may inspect a facility to which a captive white-tailed deer propagation license has been issued only at reasonable times and when the inspection is in connection with a criminal investigation.
(D) The chief, with the approval of the director of agriculture, may suspend or revoke a captive white-tailed deer propagation license issued to a person who also has been issued a valid license under section 943.03 or 943.031 of the Revised Code for the same facility if the person fails to comply with this chapter and Chapter 1531. of the Revised Code, division rules, sections 943.20 to 943.26 of the Revised Code, and rules adopted under section 943.24 of the Revised Code.
(E) Except as provided by law, no person shall possess game birds, game quadrupeds, or fur-bearing animals in closed season, provided that municipal or governmental zoological parks are not required to obtain the licenses provided for in this section.
(F) Except for a captive white-tailed deer propagation license, all licenses issued under this section shall expire on the fifteenth day of March of each year.
(G) The chief shall pay all moneys received as fees for the issuance of licenses under this section into the state treasury to the credit of the fund created by section 1533.15 of the Revised Code for the use of the division in the purchase, preservation, and protection of wild animals and for the necessary clerical help and forms required by sections 1533.71 to 1533.79 of the Revised Code.
(H) This section does not authorize the taking or the release for taking of the following:
(1) Game birds, without first obtaining a commercial bird shooting preserve license issued under section 1533.72 of the Revised Code;
(2) Game or nonnative wildlife, without first obtaining a wild animal hunting preserve license issued under section 1533.721 of the Revised Code.
(I) A license shall not be issued under this section to raise or sell a dangerous wild animal or restricted snake as defined in section 935.01 of the Revised Code.
The Legislative Service Commission presents the text of this section as a composite of the section as amended by multiple acts of the General Assembly. This presentation recognizes the principle stated in R.C. 1.52(B) that amendments are to be harmonized if reasonably capable of simultaneous operation.
Available Versions of this Section
June 29, 2012 – House Bill 389, Senate Bill 310 - 129th General Assembly
[ View June 29, 2012 Version ]
 

