# Ohio Rev. Code §§ 935.02 to 935.101: the dangerous wild animal possession bar, its exemptions, the 2012 registration, the small primate registration at 935.041, and the wildlife shelter, propagation and restricted snake permits

sourceId: oh-935-02
jurisdiction: OH
url: https://codes.ohio.gov/ohio-revised-code/section-935.02 (and 935.03 to 935.101)
fetched: 2026-10-08
fetch notes: codes.ohio.gov by plain curl, one section per page; tags and site chrome stripped. Each section printed as one paragraph.

Extracted text follows verbatim. This is a cache of the primary source, not a
substitute for it. Re-fetch before relying on it for a new verification date.

----------------------------------------------------------------------

==== R.C. 935.02 ====
 Possession of dangerous wild animal prohibited. September 5, 2012 (A) No person shall possess a dangerous 
wild animal on or after January 1, 2014. (B)(1) Except as provided in divisions (G)(1) and (2) of section 
935.06 of the Revised Code, no person shall acquire, buy, sell, trade, or transfer possession or ownership of 
a dangerous wild animal on or after the effective date of this section. (2) Notwithstanding division (B)(1) 
of this section, a person that operates a rescue facility may acquire, except by purchase, possession or 
ownership of a dangerous wild animal if one of the following applies: (a) Prior to January 1, 2014, the 
person is authorized to do so by the director of agriculture in accordance with procedures adopted by the 
director. (b) On or after January 1, 2014, the person has obtained a rescue facility permit under section 
935.101 of the Revised Code. 

==== R.C. 935.03 ====
 Exceptions. March 20, 2026 House Bill 247 - 136th General Assembly (A) Division (A) of section 935.02 of the 
Revised Code does not apply to any of the following: (1) A person to which all of the following apply: (a) 
The person possesses a dangerous wild animal. (b) The person has been issued a license by the United States 
department of agriculture under the federal animal welfare act. (c) The director of agriculture has 
determined that the person is in the process of becoming an accredited member of the association of zoos and 
aquariums or the zoological association of America. (d) The director has informed the person that the person 
is exempt from division (A) of section 935.02 of the Revised Code. (2) An organization to which all of the 
following apply: (a) The organization possesses a dangerous wild animal. (b) The director has determined that 
the organization is in the process of being accredited or verified by the global federation of animal 
sanctuaries as a wildlife sanctuary. (c) The director has informed the organization that it is exempt from 
division (A) of section 935.02 of the Revised Code. (3) A person whose possession of a dangerous wild animal 
is authorized by an unexpired permit issued under this chapter. (B) Except for the purposes of divisions (A) 
and (B) of section 935.04 of the Revised Code, this chapter does not apply to any of the following: (1) A 
facility that is an accredited member of the association of zoos and aquariums or the zoological association 
of America and that is licensed by the United States department of agriculture under the federal animal 
welfare act; (2) A research facility as defined in the federal animal welfare act; (3) A research facility 
that is accredited by the association for the assessment and accreditation of laboratory animal care 
international; (4) A circus; (5) A wildlife rehabilitation facility that is issued a permit by the chief of 
the division of wildlife in rules adopted under section 1531.08 of the Revised Code and that rehabilitates 
dangerous wild animals or restricted snakes that are native to the state for the purpose of reintroduction 
into the wild; (6) A veterinarian that is providing temporary veterinary care to a dangerous wild animal or 
restricted snake; (7) A wildlife sanctuary; (8) An individual who does not reside in this state, is traveling 
through this state with a dangerous wild animal or restricted snake, and does all of the following: (a) 
Confines the animal or snake in a cage at all times; (b) Confines the animal or snake in a cage that is not 
accessible to the public; (c) Does not exhibit the animal or snake; (d) Is in the state not more than 
forty-eight hours unless the animal or snake is receiving veterinary care. (9) An educational institution 
that displays a single dangerous wild animal as a sports mascot and that meets all of the following criteria: 
(a) An official of the educational institution has submitted an affidavit attesting that the institution will 
care for the animal as long as the animal lives and in a facility that is an accredited member of the 
association of zoos and aquariums or the zoological association of America. (b) The educational institution 
maintains a liability insurance policy with an insurer authorized or approved to write such insurance in this 
state that covers claims for injury or damage to persons or property caused by a dangerous wild animal. The 
amount of the insurance coverage shall be not less than one million dollars. (c) During display and 
transport, the educational institution confines the dangerous wild animal in a cage that does not permit 
physical contact between the animal and the public. (d) The educational institution began displaying a 
dangerous wild animal as a mascot prior to September 5, 2012. (10) Any person who has been issued a permit 
under section 1533.08 of the Revised Code, provided that the permit lists each specimen of wild animal that 
is a dangerous wild animal or restricted snake in the person's possession; (11) Any person authorized to 
possess a dangerous wild animal or restricted snake under section 1531.25 of the Revised Code or rules 
adopted under it; (12) A person with a mobility impairment, as defined in section 955.021 of the Revised 
Code, who possesses a dangerous wild animal specified in division (C)(20)(h) of section 935.01 of the Revised 
Code that has been trained by a nonprofit agency or is in such training to assist the person with a mobility 
impairment; (13) A deaf or hearing-impaired person who possesses a dangerous wild animal specified in 
division (C)(20)(h) of section 935.01 of the Revised Code that has been trained by a nonprofit agency or is 
in such training to assist the deaf or hearing-impaired person; (14) A person who is blind, as defined in 
section 955.021 of the Revised Code, and possesses a dangerous wild animal specified in division (C)(20)(h) 
of section 935.01 of the Revised Code that has been trained by a nonprofit agency or is in such training to 
assist the blind person. Last updated January 16, 2026 at 8:21 AM 

==== R.C. 935.04 ====
 Registration of dangerous wild animals. September 5, 2012 (A) A person that possesses a dangerous wild 
animal on the effective date of this section shall register the animal with the director of agriculture in 
accordance with this section not later than sixty days after the effective date of this section. (B) A person 
shall register a dangerous wild animal on a form prescribed and provided by the director. The form shall 
include all of the following: (1) The name, address, social security number, and federal employer 
identification number, if applicable, of the person registering the dangerous wild animal; (2) If different 
from the information provided under division (B)(1) of this section, the name and address of the location 
where the dangerous wild animal is confined; (3) A description of the dangerous wild animal, including the 
scientific and common names of the animal, the name that the person has given the animal, the animal's sex, 
age, color, and weight, and any distinguishing marks or coloration that would aid in the identification of 
the animal; (4) The name, address, and telephone number of the veterinarian that provides veterinary care to 
the dangerous wild animal; (5) Any other information required by the director in rules. (C) Beginning ninety 
days after the director adopts rules under division (A) of section 935.17 of the Revised Code, a person that 
has registered a dangerous wild animal under this section shall comply with the applicable requirements 
regarding the care and housing of dangerous wild animals established in those rules. (D) A person that 
registers a dangerous wild animal under this section shall have permanently implanted in the dangerous wild 
animal a microchip at the time of registration. The microchip shall have an identification number that is 
unique to the microchip. In addition, the microchip shall contain a passive integrated transponder, which 
shall have a frequency of one hundred twenty-five, one hundred thirty-four and two-tenths, or four hundred 
kilohertz. (E) A person that possesses a registered dangerous wild animal on October 1, 2013, and that wishes 
to continue to possess the dangerous wild animal on and after January 1, 2014, shall obtain a wildlife 
shelter permit issued under section 935.06 of the Revised Code or a wildlife propagation permit issued under 
section 935.07 of the Revised Code. 

==== R.C. 935.041 ====
 Registration of certain marmosets, monkeys, capuchins and lemurs. September 5, 2012 A person that possesses 
any of the following animals shall register the animal in the same manner as provided in section 935.04 of 
the Revised Code: (A) Pygmy, white-tufted-ear, silvery, and black-pencilled marmosets; (B) Squirrel monkeys; 
(C) Brown, white-faced, weeping, and white-fronted capuchins; (D) Lemurs. 

==== R.C. 935.05 ====
 Wildlife shelter permit. September 5, 2012 (A) A person that possesses a registered dangerous wild animal in 
this state on October 1, 2013, that wishes to continue to possess the dangerous wild animal on and after 
January 1, 2014, and that does not intend to propagate the animal shall apply for a wildlife shelter permit 
under this section. (B) An applicant for a wildlife shelter permit shall file an application for a permit 
with the director of agriculture on a form prescribed and provided by the director. An applicant need apply 
for only one permit regardless of the number of dangerous wild animals that the applicant possesses. The 
application shall include all of the following: (1) The name, date of birth, address, social security number, 
and federal employer identification number, if applicable, of the applicant; (2) If different from the 
information provided under division (B)(1) of this section, the name and address of the location where each 
dangerous wild animal will be confined; (3) A description of each dangerous wild animal, including the 
scientific and common names, the name that the applicant has given the animal, the animal's sex, age, color, 
and weight, and any distinguishing marks or coloration that would aid in the identification of the animal; 
(4) The identification number of the microchip that is implanted in each dangerous wild animal and the 
frequency of the passive integrated transponder contained in the microchip as required in section 935.04 of 
the Revised Code; (5) Proof of financial responsibility as required in division (D) of this section; (6) 
Except as otherwise provided in this section, proof that the applicant has at least two years of experience 
in the care of the species of dangerous wild animal or animals that are the subject of the application. If an 
applicant cannot provide such proof, the applicant shall pass a written examination regarding the care of 
dangerous wild animals that is established and administered in accordance with rules. (7) A plan of action to 
be undertaken if a dangerous wild animal escapes; (8) Proof that the applicant has established a 
veterinarian-client relationship as described in section 4741.04 of the Revised Code with regard to each 
dangerous wild animal; (9) Any additional information required in rules. An applicant shall submit a copy of 
the plan of action required in division (B)(7) of this section to the sheriff of the county and to the chief 
law enforcement officer and fire chief of the township or municipal corporation having jurisdiction where the 
dangerous wild animal or animals are confined. (C) An applicant shall submit one of the following fees, as 
applicable, with an application: (1) Two hundred fifty dollars if the applicant possesses not more than three 
dangerous wild animals; (2) Five hundred dollars if the applicant possesses at least four, but not more than 
ten dangerous wild animals; (3) One thousand dollars if the applicant possesses at least eleven, but not more 
than fifteen dangerous wild animals; (4) One thousand dollars if the applicant possesses sixteen or more 
dangerous wild animals plus an additional one hundred twenty-five dollars for each animal that the applicant 
possesses in an amount greater than fifteen dangerous wild animals. (D)(1) An applicant shall obtain and 
maintain proof of financial responsibility in one of the following forms: (a) A liability insurance policy 
with an insurer authorized or approved to write such insurance in this state that covers claims for injury or 
damage to persons or property caused by a dangerous wild animal possessed by the applicant or any resulting 
claims against the state; (b) A surety bond, which shall be executed by a surety company authorized to do 
business in this state that covers claims for injury or damage to persons or property caused by a dangerous 
wild animal possessed by the applicant or any resulting claims against the state. The bond shall be in a form 
approved by the director of agriculture. (2) Proof of financial responsibility shall be in one of the 
following amounts, as applicable: (a) Two hundred thousand dollars if the applicant possesses not more than 
five dangerous wild animals; (b) Five hundred thousand dollars if the applicant possesses at least six, but 
not more than fifteen dangerous wild animals; (c) One million dollars if the applicant possesses sixteen or 
more dangerous wild animals. The amounts specified in division (D)(2) of this section shall be for each 
occurrence of injury or damage. 

==== R.C. 935.06 ====
 Issuance or denial of wildlife shelter permit. September 30, 2025 House Bill 96 - 136th General Assembly (A) 
Not later than ninety days after receipt of an application under section 935.05 of the Revised Code, the 
director of agriculture shall issue or deny a wildlife shelter permit. The director shall issue a permit to 
an applicant only if all of the following apply: (1) The applicant is eighteen years of age or older. (2) The 
applicant has registered the dangerous wild animal or animals that are the subject of the application under 
section 935.04 of the Revised Code. (3) The applicant is in compliance with the standards of care established 
in rules adopted under division (A)(2) of section 935.17 of the Revised Code. (4) The applicant has 
sterilized each male dangerous wild animal that is possessed by the applicant. However, a dangerous wild 
animal is not required to be sterilized if a veterinarian that is qualified to provide veterinary care to the 
dangerous wild animal determines that the sterilization is medically contraindicated and the applicant has 
submitted a copy of the veterinarian's written determination with the applicant's application. (5) The 
applicant has signed an affidavit attesting that the applicant will not allow members of the public to be in 
physical contact with a dangerous wild animal possessed by the applicant. Division (A)(5) of this section 
does not apply to an employee of the applicant or a volunteer who has entered into a written agreement with 
the applicant to work for or volunteer for the applicant and assists in the care of a dangerous wild animal 
or animals specified in division (C)(20) of section 935.01 of the Revised Code possessed by the applicant if 
the care is provided under the direction of the applicant. (6) The applicant has not been convicted of or 
pleaded guilty to a a disqualifying offense as determined in accordance with section 9.79 of the Revised Code 
and a criminal records check performed in accordance with division (B) of this section. (7) The facility at 
which a dangerous wild animal or dangerous wild animals will be maintained under the permit consists of at 
least one acre. Division (A)(7) of this section does not apply to either of the following: (a) Dangerous wild 
animals specified in division (C)(20) of section 935.01 of the Revised Code; (b) An applicant to whom the 
director issues a written waiver stating that the acreage requirement does not apply to the applicant. (8) 
The applicant has signed an affidavit attesting that the facility at which a dangerous wild animal or 
dangerous wild animals will be maintained under the permit and the conditions in which each dangerous wild 
animal will be kept in that facility are in compliance with this chapter and rules. (9) The applicant has 
submitted a complete application that meets the requirements established in section 935.05 of the Revised 
Code. (10) The applicant has submitted the applicable fee under section 935.05 of the Revised Code. If a 
permit is issued, the director shall assign a unique identification number to the permit. (B) Prior to 
issuing or denying a wildlife shelter permit, the director shall submit a request to the bureau of criminal 
identification and investigation in the office of the attorney general for a criminal records check of the 
applicant for the permit. Upon receipt of a request, the superintendent of the bureau shall conduct a 
criminal records check in the manner described in division (B) of section 109.572 of the Revised Code to 
determine whether any information exists that indicates that the applicant previously has been convicted of 
or pleaded guilty to any of the following: (1) A felony drug abuse offense; (2) An offense of violence that 
is a felony; (3) A violation of section 959.13 or 959.131 of the Revised Code or of section 2927.21 of the 
Revised Code as that section existed prior to its repeal by S.B. 310 of the 129th general assembly. The 
applicant is responsible for paying all costs associated with the criminal records check. (C) If a permit 
application is denied, two hundred fifty dollars of the permit application fee shall be retained by the 
director as payment for the reasonable expense of processing the application, and the remainder of the fee 
shall be returned to the applicant. (D) Not later than the first day of December of each year, a permit 
holder shall apply to the director, on a form prescribed and provided by the director, for a renewal of the 
permit if the permit holder intends to retain possession of the dangerous wild animal or animals that are 
identified in the permit. Not later than thirty days after receipt of an application for renewal, the 
director shall renew or deny the renewal of the permit. The director shall renew the permit if the permit 
holder complies with this chapter and rules and pays a renewal fee in the same amount as the fee established 
for the initial permit in section 935.05 of the Revised Code. If a renewal permit is denied, two hundred 
fifty dollars of the renewal fee shall be retained by the director as payment for the reasonable expense of 
processing the application, and the remainder of the renewal fee shall be returned to the applicant. (E) If 
the director denies an application for a permit or a renewal of a permit, the director shall notify the 
person of the denial, the grounds for the denial, and the person's right to an adjudication under Chapter 
119. of the Revised Code. (F) If a person does not appeal the determination of the director to deny an 
application for a permit or a renewal of a permit or if the determination of the director is affirmed under 
Chapter 119. of the Revised Code, not later than thirty days after the decision not to appeal or after the 
determination is affirmed, as applicable, the person shall transfer the dangerous wild animal or animals that 
the person possesses to a humane society, wildlife sanctuary, rescue facility, facility that is an accredited 
member of either the association of zoos and aquariums or the zoological association of America, or facility 
that is located in another state and that complies with that state's applicable laws. After the transfer has 
occurred, the person shall submit proof to the director that the dangerous wild animal or animals were 
transferred and shall specify the society, sanctuary, or facility to which the animal or animals were 
transferred. The person is responsible for all costs associated with the transfer of the dangerous wild 
animal or animals. (G) If a person that has been issued a wildlife shelter permit under this section or a 
wildlife propagation permit under section 935.07 of the Revised Code dies, the person's next of kin shall do 
one of the following: (1) If the next of kin wishes to possess the dangerous wild animal or animals, obtain a 
wildlife shelter permit under this section or a wildlife propagation permit under section 935.07 of the 
Revised Code, as applicable. That next of kin shall comply with this chapter and rules, except that, with 
respect to the next of kin's initial permit, the person need not pay the applicable permit application fee. 
(2) If the deceased person has a last will and testament that specifies that the dangerous wild animal or 
animals possessed by the person are to be transferred to another person that has been issued a wildlife 
shelter permit, wildlife propagation permit, or rescue facility permit issued under this chapter, transfer 
the dangerous wild animal or animals to the applicable permit holder; (3) Transfer the dangerous wild animal 
or animals that were possessed by the deceased person in accordance with division (F) of this section. (H) 
All fees collected under this section shall be credited to the animal and consumer protection fund created in 
section 943.26 of the Revised Code. Last updated July 17, 2025 at 12:38 PM 

==== R.C. 935.07 ====
 Wildlife propagation permit. September 30, 2025 House Bill 96 - 136th General Assembly (A) A person that 
possesses a registered dangerous wild animal in this state on October 1, 2013, that wishes to continue to 
possess the dangerous wild animal on and after January 1, 2014, and that intends to propagate the animal 
solely for the purposes of a species survival program that complies with rules shall apply for a wildlife 
propagation permit under this section. An applicant need apply for only one permit regardless of the number 
of dangerous wild animals that the applicant possesses. (B) Except as otherwise provided in this section, an 
applicant for a wildlife propagation permit shall comply with the requirements and procedures established in 
sections 935.05 and 935.06 of the Revised Code. The application fee for a wildlife propagation permit shall 
be one of the following, as applicable: (1) One thousand dollars if the applicant possesses not more than 
fifty dangerous wild animals; (2) Three thousand dollars if the applicant possesses more than fifty dangerous 
wild animals. (C) The facility at which a dangerous wild animal or dangerous wild animals will be maintained 
under a wildlife propagation permit shall consist of at least two acres. Division (C) of this section does 
not apply to either of the following: (1) Dangerous wild animals specified in division (C)(20) of section 
935.01 of the Revised Code; (2) An applicant to whom the director of agriculture issues a written waiver 
stating that the acreage requirement does not apply to the applicant. (D) All fees collected under this 
section shall be credited to the animal and consumer protection fund created in section 943.26 of the Revised 
Code. (E) Division (A)(4) of section 935.06 of the Revised Code does not apply to an applicant for a wildlife 
propagation permit. Last updated July 17, 2025 at 12:40 PM 

==== R.C. 935.08 ====
 Restricted snake possession permit. September 5, 2012 (A)(1) A person that possesses a restricted snake in 
this state prior to January 1, 2014, that wishes to continue to possess the restricted snake on and after 
that date, and that does not intend to propagate, sell, trade, or otherwise transfer the snake shall obtain a 
restricted snake possession permit under this section not later than January 1, 2014. (2) A person that 
acquires a restricted snake in this state on or after January 1, 2014, and that does not intend to propagate, 
sell, trade, or otherwise transfer the snake shall obtain a restricted snake possession permit under this 
section not later than one hundred twenty days after acquiring the snake. (3) An applicant need apply for 
only one permit regardless of the number of restricted snakes that the applicant possesses. (B) An applicant 
for a restricted snake possession permit shall file an application for a permit with the director of 
agriculture on a form prescribed and provided by the director. The application shall include all of the 
following: (1) The name, date of birth, address, social security number, and federal employer identification 
number, if applicable, of the applicant; (2) If different from the information provided under division (B)(1) 
of this section, the name and address of the location where each restricted snake will be confined; (3) A 
description of each restricted snake, including the scientific and common names, the name that the applicant 
has given the snake, the snake's sex, age, color, and weight, and any distinguishing marks or coloration that 
would aid in the identification of the snake; (4) Proof of financial responsibility as required in division 
(D) of this section; (5) Except as otherwise provided in this section, proof that the applicant has at least 
two years of experience in the care of the species of restricted snake or snakes that are the subject of the 
application. If an applicant cannot provide such proof, the applicant shall pass a written examination 
regarding the care of restricted snakes that is established and administered in accordance with rules. The 
requirements of division (B)(5) of this section do not apply with respect to a restricted snake specified in 
division (L)(1) of section 935.01 of the Revised Code. (6) A plan of action to be undertaken if a restricted 
snake escapes; (7) A written statement from a veterinarian stating that the veterinarian is willing to 
provide veterinary care to an applicant's restricted snake or snakes when the care is needed; (8) Any 
additional information required in rules. An applicant shall submit a copy of the plan of action required in 
division (B)(6) of this section to the sheriff of the county and to the chief law enforcement officer and 
fire chief of the township or municipal corporation having jurisdiction where the restricted snake or snakes 
are confined. (C) An applicant shall submit a fee of one hundred fifty dollars with an application. (D)(1) 
Except as provided in division (D)(3) of this section, an applicant shall obtain and maintain proof of 
financial responsibility in one of the following forms: (a) A liability insurance policy with an insurer 
authorized or approved to write such insurance in this state that covers claims for injury or damage to 
persons or property caused by a restricted snake possessed by the applicant or any resulting claims against 
the state; (b) A surety bond, which shall be executed by a surety company authorized to do business in this 
state that covers claims for injury or damage to persons or property caused by a restricted snake possessed 
by the applicant or any resulting claims against the state. The bond shall be in a form approved by the 
director of agriculture. (2) Proof of financial responsibility shall be in one of the following amounts, as 
applicable: (a) One hundred thousand dollars if the applicant possesses not more than five restricted snakes; 
(b) Two hundred fifty thousand dollars if the applicant possesses at least six, but not more than fifteen 
restricted snakes; (c) Five hundred thousand dollars if the applicant possesses sixteen or more restricted 
snakes. The amounts specified in division (D)(2) of this section shall be for each occurrence of injury or 
damage. (3) Division (D)(1) of this section does not apply to an applicant that possesses one or more 
restricted snakes specified in division (L)(1) of section 935.01 of the Revised Code, but no other restricted 
snakes. 

==== R.C. 935.09 ====
 Issuance or denial of restricted snake possession permit. September 30, 2025 House Bill 96 - 136th General 
Assembly (A) Not later than ninety days after receipt of an application under section 935.08 of the Revised 
Code, the director of agriculture shall issue or deny a restricted snake possession permit. The director 
shall issue a permit to an applicant only if all of the following apply: (1) The applicant is eighteen years 
of age or older. (2) The applicant has signed an affidavit attesting that the applicant will not allow 
members of the public to be in physical contact with a restricted snake possessed by the applicant. Division 
(A)(2) of this section does not apply to either of the following: (a) An applicant that displays a restricted 
snake or snakes specified in division (L)(1) of section 935.01 of the Revised Code to a primary or secondary 
school age student; (b) An employee of the applicant or a volunteer who has entered into a written agreement 
with the applicant to work for or volunteer for the applicant and assists in the care of a restricted snake 
or snakes possessed by the applicant if the care is provided under the direction of the applicant. (3) The 
applicant has not been convicted of or pleaded guilty to a felony drug abuse offense, an offense of violence 
that is a felony, or a violation of section 959.13 or 959.131 of the Revised Code or of section 2927.21 of 
the Revised Code as that section existed prior to its repeal by S.B. 310 of the 129th general assembly, as 
determined by a criminal records check performed in accordance with division (B) of this section. (4) The 
applicant has signed an affidavit attesting that the facility at which a restricted snake or snakes will be 
maintained under the permit and the conditions in which each restricted snake will be kept in that facility 
are in compliance with this chapter and rules. (5) The applicant has submitted a complete application that 
meets the requirements established in section 935.08 of the Revised Code. (6) The applicant has submitted the 
application fee established in section 935.08 of the Revised Code. If a permit is issued, the director shall 
assign a unique identification number to the permit. (B) Prior to issuing or denying a restricted snake 
possession permit, the director shall submit a request to the bureau of criminal identification and 
investigation in the office of the attorney general for a criminal records check of the applicant for the 
permit. Upon receipt of a request, the superintendent of the bureau shall conduct a criminal records check in 
the manner described in division (B) of section 109.572 of the Revised Code to determine whether any 
information exists that indicates that the applicant previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to 
any of the following: (1) A felony drug abuse offense; (2) An offense of violence that is a felony; (3) A 
violation of section 959.13 or 959.131 of the Revised Code or of section 2927.21 of the Revised Code as that 
section existed prior to its repeal by S.B. 310 of the 129th general assembly. The applicant is responsible 
for paying all costs associated with the criminal records check. (C) If a permit application is denied, 
seventy-five dollars of the permit application fee shall be retained by the director as payment for the 
reasonable expense of processing the application, and the remainder of the fee shall be returned to the 
applicant. (D) Not later than the first day of December of each year, a permit holder shall apply to the 
director, on a form prescribed and provided by the director, for a renewal of the permit if the permit holder 
intends to retain possession of the restricted snake or snakes that are identified in the permit. Not later 
than thirty days after receipt of an application for renewal, the director shall renew or deny the renewal of 
the permit. The director shall renew the permit if the permit holder complies with this chapter and rules and 
pays a renewal fee in the same amount as the fee established for the initial permit in section 935.08 of the 
Revised Code. If a renewal permit is denied, seventy-five dollars of the renewal fee shall be retained by the 
director as payment for the reasonable expense of processing the application, and the remainder of the 
renewal fee shall be returned to the applicant. (E) If the director denies an application for a permit or a 
renewal of a permit, the director shall notify the person of the denial, the grounds for the denial, and the 
person's right to an adjudication under Chapter 119. of the Revised Code. (F) If a person does not appeal the 
determination of the director to deny an application for a permit or a renewal of a permit or if the 
determination of the director is affirmed under Chapter 119. of the Revised Code, not later than thirty days 
after the decision not to appeal or after the determination is affirmed, as applicable, the person shall 
transfer the restricted snake or snakes that the person possesses to a humane society, wildlife sanctuary, 
facility that is an accredited member of either the association of zoos and aquariums or the zoological 
association of America, or facility that is located in another state and that complies with that state's 
applicable laws. After the transfer has occurred, the person shall submit proof to the director that the 
restricted snake or snakes were transferred and shall specify the society, sanctuary, or facility to which 
the snake or snakes were transferred. The person is responsible for all costs associated with the transfer of 
the restricted snake or snakes. (G) If a person that has been issued a restricted snake possession permit 
under this section or a restricted snake propagation permit under section 935.10 of the Revised Code dies, 
the person's next of kin shall do one of the following: (1) If the next of kin wishes to possess the 
restricted snake or snakes, obtain a restricted snake possession permit under this section or a restricted 
snake propagation permit under section 935.10 of the Revised Code, as applicable. That next of kin shall 
comply with this chapter and rules, except that, with respect to the next of kin's initial permit, the person 
need not pay the applicable permit application fee. (2) If the deceased person has a last will and testament 
that specifies that the restricted snake or snakes possessed by the person are to be transferred to another 
person that has been issued a restricted snake possession permit under this section or a restricted snake 
propagation permit issued under section 935.10 of the Revised Code, transfer the restricted snake or snakes 
to the applicable permit holder; (3) Transfer the restricted snake or snakes that were possessed by the 
deceased person in accordance with division (F) of this section. (H) All fees collected under this section 
shall be credited to the animal and consumer protection fund created in section 943.26 of the Revised Code. 
Last updated July 17, 2025 at 12:41 PM 

==== R.C. 935.10 ====
 Restricted snake propagation permit. September 30, 2025 House Bill 96 - 136th General Assembly (A)(1) A 
person that possesses a restricted snake in this state prior to January 1, 2014, that wishes to continue to 
possess the restricted snake on and after that date, and that intends to propagate, sell, trade, or otherwise 
transfer the snake shall obtain a restricted snake propagation permit under this section not later than 
January 1, 2014. (2) A person that acquires a restricted snake in this state on or after January 1, 2014, and 
that intends to propagate, sell, trade, or otherwise transfer the snake shall obtain a restricted snake 
propagation permit under this section not later than one hundred twenty days after acquiring the snake. (3) 
An applicant need apply for only one permit regardless of the number of restricted snakes that the applicant 
possesses. (B) Except as otherwise provided in this section, an applicant for a restricted snake propagation 
permit shall comply with the requirements and procedures established in sections 935.08 and 935.09 of the 
Revised Code. The application fee for a restricted snake propagation permit shall be three hundred dollars. 
(C) If a permit application is denied, one hundred fifty dollars of the permit application fee shall be 
retained by the director of agriculture as payment for the reasonable expense of processing the application, 
and the remainder of the fee shall be returned to the applicant. (D) All fees collected under this section 
shall be credited to the animal and consumer protection fund created in section 943.26 of the Revised Code. 
Last updated July 17, 2025 at 12:43 PM 

==== R.C. 935.101 ====
 Rescue facility permit. September 5, 2012 (A)(1) In lieu of obtaining any other permit under this chapter, a 
person that operates a rescue facility in this state prior to January 1, 2014, and that wishes to continue to 
operate a rescue facility on and after that date shall obtain a rescue facility permit under this section not 
later than January 1, 2014. (2) A person that wishes to begin operation of a rescue facility in this state on 
or after January 1, 2014, shall obtain a rescue facility permit under this section not later than sixty days 
prior to beginning operation. (B)(1) An applicant for a rescue facility permit shall file an application for 
a permit with the director of agriculture on a form prescribed and provided by the director. The application 
shall include information that the director requires in rules. (2) An applicant for a rescue facility permit 
shall submit one of the following fees, as applicable, with an application: (a) Five hundred dollars if the 
applicant possesses not more than three dangerous wild animals; (b) One thousand dollars if the applicant 
possesses at least four, but not more than fifteen dangerous wild animals; (c) Two thousand dollars if the 
applicant possesses sixteen or more dangerous wild animals. (3) If a permit application is denied, two 
hundred fifty dollars of the application fee shall be retained by the director as payment for the reasonable 
expense of processing the application and the remainder of the fee shall be returned to the applicant. (C) 
The director shall issue or deny a rescue facility permit in accordance with rules. The director shall issue 
a rescue facility permit only if the dangerous wild animal or animals that are or are to be possessed by an 
applicant are sterilized. (D) A person that has been issued a rescue facility permit under this section shall 
comply with the requirements regarding the care and housing of dangerous wild animals established in rules 
adopted under division (G) of section 935.17 of the Revised Code. (E) A person that has been issued a rescue 
facility permit under this section may acquire, except by purchase, possession or ownership of a dangerous 
wild animal.
