SOURCE: Vermont: 20 V.S.A. chapter 193, Domestic Pet or Wolf-Hybrid Control, §§ 3541 and 3581
sourceId: vt-20-ch-193
jurisdiction: VT
URL: https://legislature.vermont.gov/statutes/section/20/193/03541
     https://legislature.vermont.gov/statutes/section/20/193/03581
FETCHED: 2026-10-08 (plain curl with a browser User-Agent; site chrome stripped)

READ THIS FIRST. Vermont's Fish and Wildlife lists name no wolf hybrid, which would make one
Restricted by default, but the legislature wrote a whole chapter around the animal. Chapter 193 is
titled "Domestic Pet or Wolf-Hybrid Control", § 3541(8) defines a wolf-hybrid as the progeny or
descendant of a domestic dog and a wolf (or an animal represented or presenting as one), and
§ 3581(a) requires its owner to register and license it with the town clerk exactly as a dog owner
does, at the same fees. A statute that licenses the animal to private owners is the answer.

==== 20 V.S.A. § 3541 ====
 (Cite as: 20 V.S.A. § 3541)
§ 3541. Definitions
As used in this chapter:
(1) “Secretary” where no other department is referenced means the Secretary of Agriculture,
 Food and Markets and includes his or her designee.
(2) “Domestic animal” means those animals defined by 6 V.S.A. § 1151(2).
(3) “Domestic pet” or “pet” means any domestic dogs, domestic cats, and ferrets. The term
 shall also include such other domestic animals as the Secretary shall establish by
 rule, provided that the Secretary finds that the animal has the potential to become
 an imminent danger to public health or welfare if not subjected to the provisions
 of this chapter.
(4) “Ferret” means only the European ferret (Mustela putorious furo).
(5) “Legislative body” means the legislative body of a town, city, or incorporated village.
(6) “Owner” means any person who owns a domestic pet or wolf-hybrid and includes any person
 who has actual or constructive possession of the pet or wolf-hybrid. The term also
 includes those persons who provide feed or shelter to a domestic pet or wolf-hybrid.
(7) “Respondent” means a person alleged to have violated any provision of this chapter.
(8) “Wolf-hybrid” means an animal that is the progeny or descendant of a domestic dog
 (Canis familiaris) and a wolf (Canis lupus or Canis rufus). “Wolf-hybrid” also means an animal that is advertised, registered, licensed, or
 otherwise described or represented as a wolf-hybrid by its owner or an animal that
 exhibits primary physical and behavioral wolf characteristics. The Commissioner of
 Fish and Wildlife shall adopt a rule describing primary physical and behavioral wolf
 characteristics.
(9) “Working farm dog” means a dog that is bred or trained to herd or protect livestock
 or poultry or to protect crops and that is used for those purposes and that is registered
 as a working farm dog pursuant to subsection 3581(a) of this title.
(10) “Pet dealer” means any person who sells or exchanges or who offers to sell or exchange
 cats, dogs, or wolf-hybrids, or any combination thereof, from three or more litters
 of cats, dogs, or wolf-hybrids in any 12-month period. This definition shall not apply
 to pet shops, animal shelters, or rescue organizations as those terms are defined

==== 20 V.S.A. § 3581 (subsections (a) and (b)) ====
(Cite as: 20 V.S.A. § 3581)
§ 3581. General requirements
(a) A person who is the owner of a dog or wolf-hybrid more than six months old shall annually
 on or before April 1 cause it to be registered, numbered, described, and licensed
 on a form approved by the Secretary for one year from that day in the office of the
 clerk of the municipality in which the dog or wolf-hybrid is kept. A person who owns
 a working farm dog and who intends to use that dog on a farm pursuant to the exemptions
 in section 3549 of this title shall cause the working farm dog to be registered as a working farm dog and shall,
 in addition to all other fees required by this section, pay $5.00 for a working farm
 dog license. The owner of a dog or wolf-hybrid shall cause it to wear a collar and
 attach a license tag issued by the municipal clerk to the collar. Dog or wolf-hybrid
 owners shall pay for the license $4.00 for each neutered dog or wolf-hybrid, and $8.00
 for each unneutered dog or wolf-hybrid. If the license fee for any dog or wolf-hybrid
 is not paid on or before April 1, its owner or keeper may thereafter procure a license
 for that license year by paying a fee of 50 percent in excess of that otherwise required.
(b) Before a person shall be entitled to obtain a license for a neutered dog or wolf-hybrid,
 he or she shall exhibit to the clerk a certificate signed by a duly licensed veterinarian
 showing that the dog or wolf-hybrid has been sterilized.
(c)(1) A mandatory license fee surcharge of $4.00 per license shall be collected by each
 city, town, or village for the purpose of funding the dog, cat, and wolf-hybrid spaying
 and neutering program established in chapter 193, subchapter 6 of this title.
(2) An optional license fee surcharge of up to $10.00 per license is to be implemented
 by the legislative body of a city, town, or village that has established an animal
 and rabies control program for the sole purpose of funding the rabies control program.
(3) The license fee surcharges in this subsection shall not be considered part of the
