SOURCE: W. Va. Code §§ 19-34-2, 19-34-4, 19-34-5 and 19-34-6, the Dangerous Wild Animals Act
sourceId: wv-19-34
jurisdiction: WV
URL: https://code.wvlegislature.gov/19-34-4/
FETCHED: 2026-10-08 (plain curl with a browser User-Agent; site chrome stripped)

READ THIS FIRST. The list itself is W. Va. C.S.R. § 74-1-3, cached in
WV-wv-two-lists-and-a-native-bar.txt. These are the statute sections around it. § 19-34-4(a) is the
ban and § 19-34-4(b) the only permit, which goes to a person who already lawfully had the animal
before the rules took effect, 5 April 2022. § 19-34-2(2) and § 19-34-5(c)(2) keep "wildlife" as
defined in § 20-1-2 off the list, which is why the native black bear is excluded by name and why a
West Virginia native such as the bobcat is governed by Chapter 20 instead.

§19-34-2. Definitions. As used in this article unless otherwise specified: (1) "Board" means the
Dangerous Wild Animal Board; (2) "Dangerous wild animal" means a mammal, bird, reptile, amphibian or
aquatic animal, including a hybrid, that is dangerous to humans, other animals or the environment
due to its inherent nature and capability to do significant harm. "Wildlife", as defined by section
two, article one, chapter twenty of this code, "livestock", as defined in section two, article
ten-b, chapter nineteen of this code, and "domestic animals", as defined in this section, are
excluded. (3) "Domestic animal" means an animal which, through extremely long association with
humans, has been bred to a degree which has resulted in genetic changes affecting the temperament,
color, conformation or other attributes of the species to an extent that makes it unique and
distinguishable from a wild individual of its species, and includes an animal that has been bred as
a companion animal. (4) "Person" means an individual, partnership, corporation, organization, trade
or professional association, firm, limited liability company, joint venture, association, trust,
estate or other legal entity and an officer, member, shareholder, director, employee, agent or
representative thereof.

§19-34-4. Prohibition on the possession of a dangerous wild animal; exceptions. (a) Except as
otherwise provided in this article, a person may not possess a dangerous wild animal. (b) Pursuant
to the provisions of this article, the board may issue a permit for the possession of a dangerous
wild animal if the applicant was in legal possession of the animal prior to the effective date of
the rules promulgated under this article.

§19-34-5. Dangerous Wild Animal Board; composition; duties. (a) The Dangerous Wild Animal Board is
established with the following members: The Commissioner of the Department of Agriculture, the
Secretary of the Department of Health and the Director of the Division of Natural Resources, or
their designees. The board shall develop a comprehensive list of dangerous wild animals pursuant to
the rule-making authority of this article. (b) The Commissioner of Agriculture shall serve as the
chair, the Secretary of the Department of Health as the vice chair and the Director of the Division
of Natural Resources shall serve as the secretary of the board. The Department of Agriculture shall
provide necessary staff and support services to the board as needed. (c) The board shall: (1)
Establish minimum caging or enclosure requirements for various dangerous wild animals; (2) Create a
comprehensive list of dangerous wild animals, excluding wildlife, livestock and domestic animals as
defined herein. The list may include, but not be limited to: (A) Bears; (B) Big cats; (C) Canids;
(D) Primates; (E) Constrictor snakes greater than six feet, and venomous snakes; and (F) Alligators
and caimans; (3) Enforce the permit requirements and set the fees for permits; (4) Issue, renew,
revoke and maintain records for dangerous wild animal permits; (5) Annually review the list of
prohibited dangerous wild animals to determine if animals should be added or subtracted from the
list; and (6) Address any other issues required by this article.

§19-34-6. Permit applications, requirements, issuance and revocation. (a) Application. - A person
applying for a permit to possess a dangerous wild animal shall submit an application that includes
the following: (1) A fee established by the board for each dangerous wild animal; (2) The name,
address and telephone number of the applicant, and the address where the dangerous wild animal is
located; (3) A description of each dangerous wild animal, including the scientific name, common
name, permanent and unique identifier, and any information that would aid in the identification of
the animal; and (4) A description of the exact location on the property and a description of the
enclosure or cage where each dangerous wild animal is kept. (b) Permit requirements and
restrictions. - The application shall state, and the person shall acknowledge his or her
understanding, that: (1) He or she may not breed, receive or replace a dangerous wild animal; (2) He
or she shall notify the sheriff or humane officer in his or her county immediately if the dangerous
wild animal escapes; (3) He or she may not allow the dangerous wild animal to come into physical
contact with a person other than the permitee, the animal's designated handler, an employee of a
law-enforcement agency enforcing this article or a veterinarian administering medical treatment or
care; (4) He or she has not been convicted for an offense involving the abuse or neglect of any
animal; (5) He or she has not had a permit or license concerning the care, possession, exhibition,
breeding or sale of a dangerous wild animal revoked or suspended by a governmental agency; (6) He or
she shall permanently mark each dangerous wild animal with a unique identifier; (7) He or she shall
maintain records for each dangerous wild animal, including veterinary records, acquisition papers,
the purchase date and other records that prove ownership of the dangerous wild animal; (8) He or she
presents proof of liability insurance in an amount of not less than $300,000 with a deductible of
not more than $250 for each occurrence of property damage, bodily injury or death caused by a
dangerous wild animal possessed by the person; (9) He or she shall notify the board not less than
three days before a dangerous wild animal is transferred to another person out of state; (10) He or
she may not transfer dangerous wild animals in the state without the written consent of the board;
(11) He or she shall notify the board of any plans to move or change his or her address, and may not
move the animal without the written consent of the board. However, in the event of a medical
emergency, a dangerous wild animal may be transported to a licensed veterinarian's facility for
treatment and care if the animal is at all times confined sufficiently to prevent escape; and (12)
He or she shall comply with all rules promulgated by the board pursuant to the provisions of this
article. (c) The board may issue a permit to possess a dangerous wild animal if it determines that
the applicant has met the requirements of this article. (d) The board shall take final action upon
all completed permit applications within thirty days of receipt if the application is uncontested,
or within ninety days if the application is contested. (e) A permit to possess a dangerous wild
animal is valid for one calendar year and must be renewed annually.

