SOURCE: Wyoming Game and Fish Commission Regulation Chapter 10 (live warm-blooded wildlife) and Chapter 69 (live cold-blooded wildlife), and Wyo. Stat. § 23-1-101
URL: https://wgfd.wyo.gov/sites/default/files/content/PDF/Regulations/CH-10-FINAL-CLEAN-SIGNED-03-10-2023-3.pdf and .../CH-69-06-27-2022-6-CLEAN.pdf and https://www.wyoleg.gov/statutes/compress/title23.pdf
FETCHED: 2026-09-05 (wgfd.wyo.gov and wyoleg.gov both serve PDFs to plain curl. law.justia.com 403s, so take the statute from wyoleg's compressed title PDF.)

READ THIS FIRST. Wyoming splits by body temperature and the two halves work in opposite directions.

COLD-BLOODED (Chapter 69) is permissive and answers in one line. Section 10(a)(i): "Amphibians and
reptiles not listed in Section 8 or 9 of this regulation" may be imported or possessed with no
permit, no written authorization and no certificate of veterinary inspection. Section 8 is federal
injurious and endangered listings, aquatic invasive species, Xenopus, three frogs and toads, grass
carp and mosquitofish. Section 9 is venomous reptiles, herptiles that Chapter 52 puts behind a
scientific or educational take permit, Wyoming-indigenous herptiles imported for COMMERCIAL use,
and aquatic turtles in ornamental ponds. So an ordinary pet lizard or snake is free outright.

WARM-BLOODED (Chapter 10) is a closed list and works the other way. Section 3 requires a permit for
"any living warm-blooded wildlife" unless the regulation exempts it, and the exemptions are two
enumerations, DOMESTIC at § 2(i) and DOMESTICATED at § 2(j), each introduced by "For the purpose of
this regulation, ONLY the following animals are considered" its category. The domesticated European
rabbit is on the second list. Anything on neither, a southern flying squirrel for instance, goes to
§ 13(d): "A permit may be authorized upon approval for other warm-blooded wildlife."

INVERTEBRATES are outside both, at the level of the statute. Wyo. Stat. § 23-1-101(a)(xiii) defines
wildlife as a closed list of taxa with no insect or arachnid in it, and Chapter 69 § 2(c) repeats
the closure in its own words. This is the Utah shape, and it is the opposite of New Hampshire, whose
statute names invertebrates and whose closed list then swallows them.


==== Wyo. Stat. § 23-1-101(a)(xiii) ====
(xiii) "Wildlife" means all wild mammals, birds, fish, amphibians, reptiles, crustaceans and
mollusks, and wild bison designated by the Wyoming game and fish commission and the Wyoming
livestock board within Wyoming.

==== Chapter 69 § 2(c), what "cold-blooded wildlife" means ====
(c) "Cold-Blooded Wildlife" means all fish, amphibians, reptiles, mollusks, crustaceans, their
viable gametes (eggs and sperm), fertilized eggs and any transgenic product or hybrid thereof.

==== Chapter 69 §§ 8, 9 and 10 ====
Section 8. Cold-Blooded Wildlife Prohibited from Importation or Possession. An
importation/possession permit shall not be issued for importation or possession of the live cold-
blooded wildlife in this section, except as otherwise specified. Commercial use of the live cold-
blooded wildlife in this section is prohibited regardless of captive or wild origin. (a) Injurious
wildlife listed in 50 CFR 16. (b) AIS as defined in Commission Regulation Chapter 62, Regulation
for Aquatic Invasive Species. (c) Fish or other aquatic wildlife which originated from a water
source classified as suspect, positive or infested with Dreissenid Mussels. (d) Endangered and
threatened wildlife listed in 50 CFR 17.11. (e) All members of the genus Xenopus, including, but
not limited to, African Clawed Frog (Xenopus laevis). (f) American Bullfrog (Lithobates
catesbeianus). (g) Canadian Toad (Anaxyrus hemiophrys). (h) Green Frog (Lithobates clamitans). (i)
Diploid Grass Carp (Ctenopharygodon idella). (j) Western Mosquitofish (Gambusia affinis). (k) Live
baitfish that originated from outside Wyoming, unless legally obtained by the holder of a valid
license to deal in live baitfish in accordance with Commission Regulation Chapter 46, Fishing
Regulations. (l) Live baitfish that were obtained from any source within Wyoming that were
transported out of state. Once live baitfish leave the state of Wyoming, the baitfish shall not be
transported back into the state alive under any circumstance. Section 9. Cold-Blooded Wildlife
Requiring an Importation/Possession Permit. An importation/possession permit shall be required for
the activities listed in this section. The applicant for an importation/possession permit may be
required to provide evidence, allow inspections, or implement procedures necessary to ensure that
the proposed activity will not spread or introduce an AIS of concern (as defined in Commission
Regulation Chapter 51, Private Fish Hatcheries), pathogen, disease or parasite. The Department may
deny importation or possession if the Department determines it would pose a risk to the wildlife
resources of the state of Wyoming. Cold-blooded wildlife imported into the state shall not be
diverted from the destination stated on the importation/possession permit. 69-7 (a) Importation or
possession of venomous reptiles or poisonous amphibians. A certificate of veterinary inspection is
also required prior to importation. (b) Importation or possession of all amphibians, reptiles,
mollusks and crustaceans listed in Commission Regulation Chapter 52, Nongame Wildlife that require
a permit for scientific and educational take. A certificate of veterinary inspection is also
required prior to importation. (c) Importation or possession of reptiles and amphibians indigenous
to Wyoming imported for commercial use. A certificate of veterinary inspection is also required
prior to importation. (d) Placing aquatic turtles in ornamental ponds designed to prevent escape.
An importation/possession permit shall not be issued if the Department determines that escape may
be likely. (e) Transplanting or stocking Plains Topminnow (Fundulus sciadicus), Northern Plains
Killifish (Fundulus kansae), or Plains Killifish (Fundulus zebrinus) to control mosquitoes. These
species may be approved only if they are known to the Department to be established in the
drainage, stocking in the locations requested is considered by the Department to be compatible
with aquatic species in that drainage and the source population(s) for transplant are not located
in drainages known to contain an AIS or pathogen of concern (as defined in Commission Regulation
Chapter 51, Private Fish Hatcheries). (f) Using nongame fish in aquaponics or displaying nongame
fish in aquaria or ornamental ponds unless otherwise prohibited from importation or possession in
Section 8 of this regulation or allowed without an importation/possession permit in Section 10 of
this regulation. (g) Displaying coldwater, coolwater and warmwater fish in aquaria or ornamental
ponds. Fish shall be legally obtained from a Department approved private fish hatchery or an
individual or commercial operation permitted under this regulation. (h) Importing mollusks and
crustaceans for personal use that are designated as prohibited, invasive, or nuisance by any
state, unless imported solely for human consumption and exempted in Section 6 of this regulation.
Section 10. Cold-Blooded Wildlife Not Requiring an Importation/Possession Permit. (a) The animals
listed in this section may be imported or possessed without securing an importation/possession
permit and shall not require written authorization from the Chief of Fisheries. A certificate of
veterinary inspection or a fish health and AIS inspection are not required. 69-8 (i) Amphibians
and reptiles not listed in Section 8 or 9 of this regulation. (ii) Mollusks and crustaceans not
listed in Sections 8 or 9 of this regulation that are confined to aquaria. (iii) Marine fish. (iv)
Tropical fish confined in aquaria, ornamental ponds or reared in aquaponics or other artificial
environments not connected to the waters of this state. (v) Goldfish (Carassius auratus) and koi
that are confined in aquaria or ornamental ponds. (vi) Live baitfish legally obtained in
accordance with Commission Regulations Chapter 46, Fishing Regulations and Chapter 51, Private
Fish Hatcheries. (b) The following animals may be imported or possessed without securing an
importation/possession permit but shall require written authorization from the Chief of Fisheries.
Importation, possession, stocking and transportation shall be conducted in accordance with
Commission Regulations Chapter 49, Private Stocking of Cold-Blooded Wildlife and Chapter 51,
Private Fish Hatcheries. (i) Fathead Minnow (Pimephales promelas) for stocking as fish forage or
mosquito control that are legally obtained from a Department approved private fish hatchery in
accordance with Commission Regulation Chapter 49, Private Stocking of Cold-Blooded Wildlife. (ii)
Coldwater, coolwater and warmwater fish as defined in Commission Regulation Chapter 51, Private
Fish Hatcheries for private fish stocking or use in private fish hatcheries. (iii) Nongame fish
used in private fish hatcheries dealing primarily in marine or ornamental fish. (iv) Mollusks or
crustaceans used in aquaponics or any aquaculture operation. AIS hatchery inspections may be
required. Inspections shall be conducted in accordance with Commission Regulation Chapter 51,
Private Fish Hatcheries. (c) The following requirements shall apply for fish requiring written
authorization from the Chief of Fisheries prior to importation or possession. (i) When importing
fish or eggs to stock directly into a Wyoming water, the fish shall be accompanied by a copy of
the private fish stocking authorization issued by the Chief of Fisheries per Commission Regulation
Chapter 49, Private Stocking of Cold-Blooded Wildlife authorizing the stocking of a Wyoming water.
69-9 (A) If the fish or eggs are being transported by a broker they shall also be accompanied by a
copy of the receipt of delivery as defined in Commission Regulation Chapter 49, Private Stocking
of Cold-Blooded Wildlife. (ii) When an in-state Department approved private fish hatchery is
importing fish, their viable gametes (eggs and sperm) or fertilized eggs from any out-of-state
source, the fish shall be accompanied by a copy of the letter from the Chief of Fisheries to the
in-state Department approved private fish hatchery authorizing the importation.

==== Chapter 10 § 2(i) and § 2(j), the domestic and domesticated enumerations ====
(i) "Domestic Animals" means those populations of animals, their viable gametes (eggs and sperm),
fertilized eggs, or any hybrid or transgenic product thereof, which through long association with
humans have been bred to a degree which has resulted in genetic changes of the species to an
extent that makes them unique and distinguishable from wild individuals of their species. For the
purpose of this regulation, only the following animals are considered domestic: 10-2 ass, burro,
and donkey (Equus asinus), bison (Bison bison); except when classified as wild bison by the
Wyoming Game and Fish Commission and the Wyoming Livestock, cat (Felis catus), domestic cattle
(Bos taurus and Bos indicus), domestic chicken (Gallus gallus), dog (Canis familiaris), domestic
ferret (Mustela furo), domestic goat (Capra hircus), domestic greylag goose (Anser anser), horse
and pony (Equus caballus), domestic mallard (Anas platyrhynchos) distinguished morphologically
from wild mallards and captive-reared mallard ducks, mule and hinny (Equus asinus x Equus
caballus), domestic muscovy duck (Cairina moschata), pigeons (Columba livia), domestic sheep (Ovis
aries), distinguished morphologically from wild sheep, domestic swan goose (Anser cygnoides),
domestic swine (Sus domesticus), domestic turkey (Meleagris gallopavo) distinguished
morphologically from wild turkeys. (j) "Domesticated Animals" means those individual animals,
their viable gametes (eggs and sperm), fertilized eggs, or any hybrid or any transgenic product
thereof, which have been made tractable (easily managed or controlled) or tame. For the purpose of
this regulation, only the following animals are considered domesticated: domesticated alpaca (Lama
pacos), domesticated camel (Camelus bactrianus and Camelus dromedarius), domesticated chinchilla
(Chinchilla laniger), domesticated emu (Dromaius novaehollandiae), domesticated European rabbit
(Oryctolagus cuniculus), domesticated Mongolian gerbil (Meriones unguiculatus), domesticated
guinea fowl (Numida meleagris), domesticated guinea pig (Cavia porcellus), domesticated hamster
(Mesocricetus auratus), domesticated hedgehog (Erinaceus spp.), domesticated llama (Lama glama),
domesticated mouse (Mus musculus), domesticated ostrich (Struthio camelus), domesticated peafowl
(Pavo cristatus), domesticated pot-bellied pig (Sus scrofa domesticus), domesticated quail, common
(Coturnix coturnix), domesticated quail, Japanese (Coturnix japonica), domesticated rat (Rattus
norvegicus and Rattus rattus), 10-3 domesticated sugar gliders (Petaurus breviceps), domesticated
rhea (Rhea americana and Rhea pennata), domesticated vicuna (Vicugna vicugna), domesticated water
buffalo (Bubalus bubalis), domesticated yak (Bos grunniens), domesticated zebra (Equus quagga).

==== Chapter 10 § 3 ====
Section 3. Importation/Possession Permit Required For Live Warm-Blooded Wildlife. Except as
otherwise specified or exempted in this regulation, a permit from the Department is required prior
to importation, possession, confinement or transportation of any living warm-blooded wildlife.

==== Chapter 10 §§ 11 to 16 ====
Section 11. Warm-Blooded Wildlife Prohibited from Importation and Possession. (a) There shall be
no private ownership, private importation or private possession of live big or trophy game
animals, except as otherwise specified in this regulation. (b) In addition, a permit shall not be
issued for importation or possession of the following live warm-blooded wildlife in Wyoming,
except as otherwise specified in this regulation. (i) All members of the subfamily Alcelaphinae;
(ii) All members of the subfamily Caprinae, except those exempt in Section 16; 10-8 (iii) Monk
parakeet (Myiopsitta monachus); (iv) All members of the order nonhuman primates; (v) All members
of the order Rodentia from Africa; (vi) All members of the family Suidae, except those exempt in
Section 16; (vii) All members of the family Tayassuidae; (viii) Wild turkey (meleagris gallopavo);
(ix) Gray wolf (Canis Lupis); (x) Red wolf (Canis Rufus); (xi) Red deer (Cervus elaphus); (xii)
Red deer hybrid (xiii) Wolf hybrid (xiv) Injurious wildlife listed in 50 CFR 16 (xv) Endangered
and threatened wildlife listed in 50 CFR 17.11; and (xvi) Protected animals Section 12. Warm-
Blooded Wildlife Prohibited From Importation. Warm- blooded wildlife declared as pests by W.S.
11-5-101 through W.S. 11-5-119, and wildlife defined in W.S. 23-1-101 as predatory animals and
predacious birds, Eurasian Collared-dove (Streptopelia decaocto), and Mute Swans (Cygnus olor) are
prohibited from importation, except as otherwise provided. Section 13. Importation/Possession
Permit Required. A permit is required prior to importation, possession and transportation for the
following warm-blooded wildlife unless otherwise specified in this regulation: (a) Furbearing
animals, except: (i) Live furbearing animals may be captured in the State under terms of W.S.
23-2-305 for propagation only during open seasons for the trapping of furbearing animals as
specified in Commission Regulation Chapter 4, Furbearing Animal Hunting or Trapping Seasons. 10-9
(ii) Persons licensed to capture furbearing animals for the purpose of propagation shall be
governed by Commission Regulation Chapter 4, Furbearing Animal Hunting or Trapping Seasons, except
that furbearing animals do not have to be killed before leaving the trap site. (b) Pen-raised game
birds and captive-reared mallard ducks, excluding those held under authority of W.S 23-5-102
(licensed game bird farms). A game bird certificate of origin shall be completed as prescribed in
Appendix I Section 3 (c) prior to said wildlife being imported into the state. (c) Nongame
wildlife utilized for commercial use. (d) A permit may be authorized upon approval for other warm-
blooded wildlife unless otherwise specified in this regulation. Section 14. Possession of Warm-
Blooded Wildlife from Within Wyoming - No Possession Permit Required. The following wildlife may
be possessed without a permit if captured in the state, but no importation is allowed. (a) All
birds listed in Commission Regulation Chapter 52, Take of Nongame Wildlife From Within Wyoming,
where take without a permit for personal use is allowed. (b) Mammals declared as pests by W.S.
11-5-101 through W.S. 11-5-119, or animals defined in W.S. 23-1-101 as predatory animals. (c)
Species listed in this section are prohibited from importation into the state. Section 15.
Possession of Warm-Blooded Wildlife From Within Wyoming No Possession Permit Required. Importation
Permit Required Prior to Entry Into the State. The following wildlife may be possessed without a
permit if captured in the state, but require a permit before being imported, except as otherwise
specified. (a) All mammals listed in Commission Regulation Chapter 52, Take of Nongame Wildlife
From Within Wyoming, where take without a permit is allowed for personal use, except no
importation shall be allowed for animals declared as pests by W.S. 11-5-101 through W.S. 11-5-119,
or animals defined in W.S. 23-1-101 as predatory animals. Section 16. Possession and Importation
of Wildlife No Possession/Importation Permit Required. Live warm-blooded wildlife listed in this
section, unless otherwise specified or listed as prohibited from possession and importation, may
be imported, possessed or transported without a permit. (a) For live warm-blooded wildlife defined
as domestic or domesticated in this regulation, a certificate of veterinary inspection is not
required by the Department; however, the Wyoming Animal Management Damage Board, the Wyoming
Livestock Board and the Wyoming Department of Agriculture or other rules may apply. 10-10 (b)
Birds: (i) Cage and aviary birds. A certificate of veterinary inspection is not required by the
Department; however, the Wyoming Livestock Board, the Wyoming Animal Damage Management Board and
the Wyoming Department of Agriculture or other rules may apply; and, (ii) Pen-raised game birds,
captive-reared mallards and captive-bred migratory waterfowl legally imported, possessed, confined
or transported under terms of W.S. 23-5-102 (licensed game bird farms). A certificate of
veterinary inspection or a National Poultry Improvement Plan VS Form 9-3 shall be issued and a
game bird certificate of origin shall be issued prior to such wildlife being imported into the
state; and, (iii) Raptors legally imported or transported into the state under terms of W.S.
23-2-105 (license to take falcons and hawks) and Commission Regulation Chapter 25, Falconry and
Raptor Propagation Regulation. A certificate of veterinary inspection shall be issued prior to
such wildlife being imported or transported into the state.
