SOURCE: Wyo. Stat. § 23-1-101(a), definitions of wildlife (big game, furbearing, predatory, protected, trophy game), and § 23-2-305, capture of furbearing animals for domestication
sourceId: wy-23-1-101
jurisdiction: WY
URL: https://www.wyoleg.gov/statutes/compress/title23.pdf
FETCHED: 2026-10-08 (plain curl, pdftotext -layout; the compressed Title 23 PDF from wyoleg.gov)

READ THIS FIRST. WY-wy-ch10-ch69.txt has only § 23-1-101(a)(xiii), the definition of wildlife.
Chapter 10 of the Commission's rules turns on the other definitions, which are here. A "predatory
animal" (coyote, jackrabbit, porcupine, raccoon, red fox, skunk, stray cat, and gray wolves outside
the trophy area) is barred from IMPORTATION by Chapter 10 § 12 but may be POSSESSED without a permit
if captured in Wyoming, by § 14(b). The lynx is a "protected animal", which Chapter 10 § 11(b)(xvi)
puts beyond any permit. The black bear is a "trophy game animal", which § 11(a) bars from private
ownership. The bobcat is a "furbearing animal", which § 13(a) puts under a permit, and § 23-2-305
is the license to capture one for domestication or propagation.

                        TITLE 23 - GAME AND FISH

                       CHAPTER 1 - ADMINISTRATION

                     ARTICLE 1 - GENERAL PROVISIONS

    23-1-101.       Definitions of wildlife.

    (a)     As used in this act:

          (i) "Big game animal" means antelope, bighorn sheep,
deer, elk, moose or mountain goat;

          (ii) "Exotic species" means any wild animals,
including amphibians, reptiles, mollusks, crustaceans or birds
not found in a wild, free or unconfined status in Wyoming;

          (iii) "Furbearing animal" means badger, beaver,
bobcat, marten, mink, muskrat or weasel;

          (iv) "Game bird" means grouse, partridge, pheasant,
ptarmigan, quail, wild turkey and migratory game birds;

          (v) "Game fish" means bass, catfish, crappie,
grayling, burbot, northern pike, perch, salmon, sauger, sunfish,
trout, walleye or whitefish unless the species is otherwise
designated by the commission in specific waters through rule and
regulation;

          (vi) "Migratory game bird" means all migratory game
birds defined and protected under federal law;

            (vii)    "Predacious bird" means English sparrow and
starling;

            (viii)    "Predatory animal" means:

               (A) Coyote, jackrabbit, porcupine, raccoon, red
fox, skunk or stray cat; and

               (B) Until the date gray wolves are removed from
the list of experimental nonessential population, endangered
species or threatened species in Wyoming as provided by W.S.
23-1-108, "predatory animal" includes wolves. After that date,
"predatory animal" shall include any gray wolf within areas of
the state where the state of Wyoming has jurisdiction for
wildlife management, but not within an area of the state in
which the gray wolf is:

                    (I) Designated as a trophy game animal
under subdivision (xii)(B)(I) or (II) of this subsection.

                    (II)   Repealed By Laws 2012, Ch. 25, § 2.

          (ix) "Protected animal" means black-footed ferret,
fisher, lynx, pika or wolverine;

          (x) "Protected bird" means migratory birds as defined
and protected under federal law;

          (xi) "Small game animal" means cottontail rabbit or
snowshoe hare, and fox, grey and red squirrels;

         (xii)   "Trophy game animal" means:

              (A)   Black bear, grizzly bear or mountain lion;
and
          [subparagraph (B), the gray wolf trophy game areas, omitted]

     23-2-305.   Capture of furbearing animals for domestication;
license; fee.

Any resident person who desires to capture furbearing animals
for domestication or propagation shall apply for and pay to the
department the proper fee for a license to capture furbearing
animals for the purposes of domestication or propagation. The
department may issue the license under such restrictions as it
deems necessary.

